Featured


Consulting can save you from building a bad tech

This article can be used a guide by business owners who are looking to build a
saas product for their business, a marketing head who is looking to outsource
development and needs to collect information in the right way from his company
or a development company who is looking for right ways to analyse their
customer project requirements.

Nishtha
Aug 30, 2019
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 11 minutes

This article can be used a guide by business owners who are looking to build a
saas product for their business, a marketing head who is looking to outsource
development and needs to collect information in the right way from his company
or a development company who is looking for right ways to analyse their
customer project requirements.

Consulting your customer or having internal brainstorming before stepping into
development will save you a lot of effort. Some project managers and
consultants argue that if a customer requirements are accurately identified in
the early stages of software development, it can solve the biggest problem for
your business.

One can actually not stress enough on the importance of a research phase.
If not done properly, it can result into project deliverables not meeting the
business requirements which in turn would result in waste of time and money.

. . .

Consulting can help eliminate the gap between business challenges, technical
requirements and end customer experience, which is a huge step in building a
successful product. With a well-defined scope, you can avoid scope creep and
revisions that can potentially derail your project – We call this consulting
phase a Discovery Phase

Discovery Phase is a process of research and analysis where teams work together
to understand business models, operations, technical requirements, challenges
and organizational goals, which is then converted into a well-defined plan of
technical requirement documents, project strategy, user flows & journeys and
prototypes.

This phase is critical as the information gathered will be utilized as a base
for the System Requirements Specifications (SRS) document. The SRS will include
a vision or mission statement of the company defining the overall objectives
and business plans. You can also see this process as setting up the right
expectations as business and vendor as it enables both parties to minimize
risks and balance the task management within the required timeframe.

A process of discovery phase must always include key executives and
stakeholders. An ideal business analyst must follow some techniques to get
started. You can use some or all of these techniques below to get started with
your action plan.


#1 Interview

Interview turns out to be one of the most effective techniques for requirement
gathering. In this method, the business analyst talks to company employees at
various roles such as directors or owners to understand the goals and
objectives, operations head to understand the business processing, sales team
to understand the sales process and marketing team to understand the marketing
goals. This helps him to to give out detailed information as they are not aware
of the system development and related functionalities.It is the responsibility
of the business analyst to extract relevant information from them which can be
achieved by interview. If you do not have a large team, then a single contact
can also share relevant details and the rest can be covered under competitor
and industry analysis.


#2 Survey

Survey is another effective method to collect information and requirements
within a short frame of time. Under this technique, it is advisable to first
ascertain the goal of the survey and thereafter draft the questionnaire. Once
your questions list is ready, it should be delivered to stakeholder.


#3 Brainstorming

Once you have all your base requirements collected, its time to discuss it with
your stakeholders. Stakeholders from both sides of the company and development
team are responsible to conduct brainstorming sessions. They discuss and find
out solutions to complex issues.They are further responsible for requirement
prioritization post they collect all the requirements which are related to the
software. Face to face meetings or video conferencing calls are highly
recommended for these sessions.


#4 Joint Application Method

This method follows a prototyping method, under which all the stakeholders like
developers, end users, SMEs, business analysts and software engineers come
together and attend workshops for working on a system in greater detail. These
stakeholders attend the workshops till the time the desired goal is
accomplished.


#5 Observation

Under the observation method, the responsible person observes the team in
working environment and gets ideas about the software and subsequently document
the observation. Observation can be invisible, the person simply observes the
working and does not interact or makes himself visible, and hence, the
concerned person observes and asks relevant questions.


#6 Focus Group

In this method, the business analyst bases his/her requirement gathering
process by interacting with the representative of the client and users.The
representative here has a broad idea pertaining to the needs of the users and
clients. Under focus group, the idea is to collect information from
representatives to understand the software idea clearly.


#7 Interface Analysis

Interface analysis is a specialized technique in which specific requirements
related to application development are determined and their interaction with
other software components is measured.


#8 Prototyping

This is a technique of building a model of software which helps in uncovering
and capturing software requirements from client. The output can be broad
mockups or sketch formats of software.


#9 Use case diagrams

Use case diagram is a technique that shows how people interact with software.
It shows what a system does.


#10 Problem Reports and Suggestion Analysis

Requirements analysis can also be done from change suggestions and user issues.
A direct method to look for requirements is to see the suggestions and problems
that are described in the document first. Some organizations have forms to
report and record system problems; you can look through such reports and find
the pain points.

To help you choose which of the above techniques to use, there are a few
factors that need to be considered – Availability and location of the
stakeholders, Client and development team’s knowledge on the problem, Client
and development team’s knowledge of the development process and methods to
resolve the same.

Gathering and managing requirements is a challenge in effective project
management. It can be a matter of success or failure for for projects, if
requirement gathering is ineffective and this can happen even if the project is
midway. Web projects have a baseline that is continuously evolving throughout
the timeline of the project which needs careful and effectual management.
Project manager needs to duly assess and understand the novelty value of the
requirement gathering process of individual project. Requirement risks are one
of the most insidious risks that threaten IT project and their effectual
management. Having unclear requirements, lack of client involvement in the
process or faulty requirements; all these become the major perpetrators in the
projects which are likely to go awry. Following agile practices can effectively
help you in mitigating such risks to a large extent. Project teams can make a
lot of difference by adopting and executing agile working practices. If
implemented accurately, agile working can reduce the risks that are associated
with requirements gathering in IT projects.

Soliciting and collecting business requirements is a critical step for any kind
of project. Creating complete set of requirements at a preliminary stage can
facilitates in better planning, precise cost estimates, shorter delivery
timeline, enhanced client satisfaction and better response to the final
product. Eliminating the gap between business and technical requirements is the
responsibility of business analysts as they need to understand the business
needs in the full context and align the same with the business objectives while
communicating the same to the development team as well as other company
stakeholders. For the said purpose, they need to ensure that the requirements
are written in a form that is easily understandable by both the groups.
Business analysts also need to stir between vague and sometimes differing views
of the stakeholders in order to concur on what needs to be accomplished. There
are times when the requirements gathering efforts are hindered by several kinds
of pitfalls.

Let’s discuss some of the challenges that can grip requirements gathering
process and discuss the potential approaches to deal with them.


#1 Lack of Clarity in Defining Criteria for Success

Stakeholders have a clear idea about the problems they are facing or exploring
a particular opportunity; however, more often than not they are pretty clueless
about exactly what they are looking to achieve. In order to address this
concern, it is advisable to break the project into small bits and start from
the section where the client has most clarity. There are collaborative
modelling tools which allow the clients to have a high level vision of the end
result which makes getting feedback early in the process simple enough. It is
also advisable to ask questions from the client and identify current business
practices and identify the pain points which can be improvised. In any case,
the best thing to do is make the requirements quantifiable and testable so as
to have a solid foundation against which the results can be later measured.


#2 Organizations Change their Minds Often

When the requirements are not clearly defined or understood/evolved over the
course of the project, changes are bound to happen. The best approach to tackle
it is to become adaptable and accept the changes. Although, it is important
that the changes are prioritized and estimated and new time and budget
allocations are communicated and confirmed with the client before modifications
are taken care of.


#3 Lack of Communication between parties

Active communication and participation by organization stakeholders is critical
to the success of the requirement gathering process. Getting the stakeholders
to provide honest and open inputs requires establishing a rapport of trust. It
is important to listen, learn and speak the client’s language for their project
and the same implies that you are interested as well as have understood the
client’s business challenges and are here to focus on resolving the issues.


#4 Getting stuck on solution offerings

Companies often get too stuck up on a particular technology or software which
happens when they have limited knowledge in certain technical areas or when a
particular technology has worked wonders for them in the past. The best thing
to do here is to focus on the main problem and understand how their preferred
tool or technology can help them here. Create comparison spreadsheet with
features that matter, and rate each tool and technology based on it. This will
give both parties a clear direction to work towards.


#5 Stakeholders can have conflicting priorities

Requirements gathering process needs to have a tough approach which includes
asking open ended questions for the stakeholders to answer. All stakeholders
involved must articulate their ideas and perspectives in a timely manner.
Rushing through process may lead to proposed terms that are considered out of
scope, or promoting individual agendas rather than the organization’s vision. A
desirable thing to do is to have several interactive sessions with the client
that has enough scope in between to digest the inputs collected, ensuring that
the requirements gathering process gets on the right track delivering the right
results.

Based on the brainstorming sessions, the business analyst will then analyze the
requirements and draft an SRS (system requirement specification) document.This
document would include basic objectives, functional as well as data
description, system architecture, ACD (architecture context diagram), systems
requirements and some suggested additional revenue streams and also the basic
USP (unique selling point) of your web application etc. Teams also set up a
creative designer who will be working on the design elements. Post the designs
of the screens are made, a basic HTML prototype is made to ensure user flow and
journey flow are inline with the use cases.

After the completion of discovery phase, you should have a clear roadmap along
or project planning, requirements and scope of work with correct time, team and
cost estimate.

In further detail an SRS document prepared should include the following
component details:

Project Overview

Objectives & Constraints

In scope items

Functional and data Description

System architecture

Architecture context diagram (ACD)

System module narrative

Resource requirements

Team members by skill type

Systems requirements

Estimates will further include the following:

Development timeline based on above

Costs associated with each element above

Hosting Requirements, Cost Estimation, TimeLine

In the end, here are some best practices to follow while you get your project
discovery done.

#1 The primary important step in discovery phase is requirement gathering and
identifying the problem along with the business users and defining in the most
accurate manner. This definition must include:

Project issue and the advised solution

What are the benefits that are expected from this solution

#2 Accurate and detailed description of the project. The solution that has been
planned should be adequately described at a high level along with the business
requirements that it is centered on.

#3 It is imperative to address all the needs of stakeholders as well as users.
This is a relevant part of requirements analysis and an important step which we
should follow methodically before we freeze the requirements. This step helps
in the deployment phase as well since the user gets adaptable to the new
process/application.

#4 The solution offered must have its set of do’s and don’ts which should be
captured in detail. This will be helpful in clarifying any doubts.

#5 The application should have its planned features captured in grave detail.
The functional, as well as non-functional requirements should also be captured
in much detail further including details on the project’s execution strategy.

To summarize what we have discussed so far – it is vital that the business
analyst draws out a plan which is helpful for capturing the basic requirements
of the client. When this plan is carefully researched and drafted, there is
little room for rework which further helps in saving time. It is also necessary
that all the stakeholders give their view with regard to the software being
developed and kept in loop of the progress being made. Working as per the
requirement gathering process ensures that the quality of the end product is
superlative and makes it simpler at all stages of the SDLC. This phase gives a
solid foundation to the rest of the processes and steps for design and
development and hence ensures that the problem is resolved. The stronger the
foundation and clearer the understanding for the project, smoother will be the
course of things when development begins and we move onto the support and
testing phases of the project. There might be a time when getting the perfect
requirements gets difficult; however, better the understanding, more solid the
end product would turn out to be.

This document is your trigger point for designing, documenting and developing
and will be of immense help in all aspects of the project some time or the
other. Try out these techniques with your business or your clients and let us
know what you feel. If you have any questions on how to implement some of the
points above, please leave a comment and I will get back to you.

Also check how we work with our clients

Featured


Similar posts

Featured


NMG Technologies Made It on the List of Top Mobile App Development Companies at
GoodFirms

GoodFirms recognized and featured NMG Technologies among the top mobile
application development companies, pioneering software development companies,

Nishtha Jan 25, 2019
Growth


Requirement Gathering: How We Solve The Biggest Problems With Consulting

Requirements Gathering, Project Development, Web Development, HTML, SRS
Document, System Specification Requirement

Nishtha Jan 28, 2016
Web


Need a New Ecommerce Site for Your Business? Our Prices Start From $999

NMG offers best solutions or ecommerce site development at affordable prices.
We specialize in custom E-commerce website development. Contact us...

Nishtha Oct 16, 2015


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.