Technology


Top ten PHP framework to look out in 2020

PHP is the most popular programming language among web developers around the
world. Here's the list of top PHP frameworks for 2022.

Nishtha
Aug 24, 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 24 minutes

Create exclusive web applications in a short time with the best PHP frameworks.

Use this best PHP portal framework as the open doors that help you simplify
complex coding concerns and let you develop highly engaging websites that users
love to explore.

PHP frameworks are the second name of building fast, scalable and most
importantly highly engaging web applications. There are proven examples of
increased engagement and conversions of websites (that have used certain PHP
frameworks).

And I can surely say that your website would be the next popular one over the
web if you design it using any of the best PHP frameworks.

Therefore, if your objective is to build a fast, engaging and high-quality web
application for your business, PHP frameworks are the best options you can
proceed with.

But make sure that you know –

What are the best PHP frameworks 2020 that you can rely on?

If you’re not sure what’s best and which PHP web framework to choose for better
web development, go through the below list. This will save your time and make
you conceptually understand which framework to single out as per project
requirements.

…

P HP has become the world’s most popular scripting language, helping web
developers create outstanding products with high-quality.

PHP is highly adaptive and being used by 79% of websites as the best
server-side scripting language. But it’s common knowledge that PHP is not easy
to learn and implement and sometimes leaves the web development with
complexities like difficult to read code and website structure.

Thankfully, we have access to various best PHP web frameworks that are highly
appreciated across the web industry as the best, most simplified and easy to
use web development platforms.

Do you want to know what all these PHP frameworks are?

Proceed with the blog! Here, you’ll be able to get a strong grip on all the
best PHP frameworks for website development with all their benefits.

Let’s start discussing the concept from scratch:


What are PHP frameworks and how these help developers build engaging web
applications?

The entire PHP frame is website building blocks written in PHP. The main motive
to introduce these frameworks is to simplify the web development process by
providing a robust structure. 

In simple words, PHP web frameworks promote rapid application development (RAD)
that ultimately saves a lot of time and helps developers build stable
applications with the utmost quality.

So, if you’re tired of writing repetitive codes for the same kind of
applications, PHP frameworks can help you get rid of doing this monotonous task.

Delving deep into the concept, you’ll get to know –

How PHP Frameworks Help Build Creative Applications?

Majorly, PHP web frameworks are known for offering an easy to implement
structure and lets developers build powerful web applications without any
trouble.

Rest, you can consider the below points the best examples to understand the
acclamation of PHP web frameworks.

So, PHP frameworks:

    • Streamline the development of web applications through structural
      scripting
    • Reduce the overall time of repetitive coding by offering pre-built
      modules to manage repetitive coding tasks
    • Help beginners build more stable apps and ensure to render proper
      database interaction and coding on the presentation layer
          • Endless tools and libraries that can help you with
          • Database abstraction
          • input/output filtration
          • Session and cookie handling
          • Form validation
          • Email, calendar and pagination management, etc.
    • Provide fast web development that lets the developers invest more time in
      creating interactive websites.
    • Operate on MVC (Model View Controller) that particularly available as an
      architectural pattern in programming that smartly isolates business logic
      from UI
    • Provide optimum security as have many input and output filtering
      functions
    • Secured a huge and skilled PHP community that supports developers all the
      time to find an accurate solution to their queries

I guess the above-mentioned reasons are enough to make you understand why you
should use PHP frameworks in this fast-paced web development world.

N ow, when you know what PHP frameworks are and why you should adopt them as
ideal web development platforms, the time has come to make you aware of all the
best PHP web frameworks available over the web.


How many types of frameworks are currently available in PHP?

I’ve gone deep into the web and curated a long list of PHP frameworks that are
currently available and running immensely to render quality website development
projects.

Available PHP Frameworks
Symfony

Laravel

Yii Framework

CodeIgnitor

Cake PHP

Aura

Phalcon

Fuel PHP

Zend

Kohana

PHPixie

Medoo

Flight

Fat-free

Prado

Zikula

Guzzle PHP

Agavi

Type 3 Flow

Webasyst

YAF

Limonade

evoCore

Stratus

Seagull

Maintainable

Slim

POP PHP

Nette

Simple MVC

PHP Mini

Silex

Phocoa

Limb

AjaxAC

Zoop

BlueShoes

PHPDevShell

The list can still be expanded with many other PHP frameworks that are widely
in use by PHP developers for PHP developing sites. Also, you can create your
own PHP MVC framework and add it to this list to make interested people aware
of the features and functionality of the same.

L et’s make the list precise to you by mentioning the best PHP frameworks that
are on the top, helping developers render the most scalable websites in the
shortest possible time.


What are the top 15 PHP frameworks to be considered in 2020?

   1. CodeIgnitor
   2. Symfony
   3. CakePHP
   4. Yii
   5. Phalcon
   6. Zend
   7. Laravel
   8. FuelPHP
   9. Slim
  10. PHPixie
  11. Aura
  12. Kohana
  13. Flight
  14. Seagull
  15. Fat-free


#1 CodeIgnitor – A Light-weight PHP Web Framework

CodeIgnitor is considered as an agile PHP application framework. It’s the best
open-source PHP framework that possesses the competence of handling complex web
applications securely.

You can consider CodeIgnitor MVC framework as the best PHP framework for
website development as it comes with small footprints (i.e., 2 MB size),
allowing developers to build dynamic web applications.

The framework also provides various small pre-built modules that help construct
well-managed reusable website components.

Additional striking attributes

    • It’s a lightweight and straightforward PHP web framework.
    • Ensures easy and hassle-free installation and usage.
    • It comes with a simple process and well-illustrated documentation (best
      suited for beginners).
    • Integrated with MVC architecture that provides it the potential to handle
      complex errors.
    • This PHP framework is also acclaimed for its security attributes hence
      admired as the best secure PHP framework.
    • Developers consider it the fastest PHP framework in comparison to others.

Get started With CodeIgnitor


#2 Symfony – A PHP Framework To Build Complex Websites

If you’re looking for a framework that has the capacity to develop and manage
large projects, Symfony can be your best bet. Launched in the year 2005, this
PHP MVC framework is pioneering and serving the industry with the best in class
projects.

Additionally, this PHP framework is also appreciated as a mature framework
among all the new PHP frameworks. The best thing you’ll observe in this
framework is in-built testing functionality that lets your web application run
as it should .

Further, this PHP web framework is highly recommended by many developers due to
its easy to understand the environment.

Additional striking attributes

    • This PHP framework is laden with a lot of useful features and libraries.
    • It’s easy to install and get easily configured on different platforms.
    • Developed with reusable PHP components.
    • Boasts database engine-independence.
    • Known for stability as it complies with most web design and development
      practices.
    • It allows absolute integration with other vendor libraries.
    • It’s a flexible open-source PHP framework and can conveniently get
      integrated with big projects based on Drupal.

Get Started With Symfony


#3 CakePHP – A PHP Framework With Built-in Validation

CakePHP always wins the debate when it comes to suggesting the best PHP
framework for website development. Though it’s an old framework still, counted
among the most popular PHP framework.

It’s free to use and has also gained the top position as the best and fastest
PHP framework. The next best feature to be listed for CakePHP is the in-built
security parameters that include XSS cross-site and SQL injection prevention
factors.

You won’t believe that PHP also attracted big brands like BMW and Hyundai due
to its well-managed development environment and improvised modularity features.

Additional striking attributes

    • It’s a simple and elegant toolkit.
    • Known as the rapid development framework.
    • Helps create visually impressive and feature-rich websites.
    • It’s one of the easiest and the best PHP web frameworks to learn because
      of CRUD (Create, Read, Update and Delete) functions.
    • Easy to install and set up as one only needs a web server and a copy of
      the framework to proceed with.
    • Due to security features, it’s been considered the best PHP framework for
      ecommerce .
    • Apart from being appreciated as the fastest PHP framework, it also bags
      various compliments for modern layout and well-defined documentation.

Get Started With CakePHP


#4 Yii – A Universal PHP Web Framework

Yii is the next active entry in our PHP framework list. It efficiently proves
its point when it comes to analyzing the performance of the websites based on
it.

This PHP framework is simply known as the best framework which comes with
component-based architecture. It’s highly capable to build modern websites with
high-quality and security attributes.

Let’s unveil what Yii has in its feature bundle.

You’ll love to know that this open-source PHP framework is well-suited to
develop all types of web applications that make it a universal framework to be
used by all PHP developers.

So, if you’re looking for a PHP framework that has the potential to create all
types of modern, dynamic and high-performance web apps, Yii can be your best
companion.

Additional striking attributes

    • It’s highly extensive and lets developers avoid the complexity of writing
      repetitive codes and SQL statements.
    • It can model databases in the form of objects that makes it more
      efficient to develop object-oriented web applications.
    • Being highly-extensible in nature, this PHP framework allows every piece
      of code to be easily and efficiently customized.

Get started With Yii


#5 Phalcon – A Full-stack PHP Framework

Phalcon can also be counted as a PHP MVC framework because it’s introduced with
MVC architecture design pattern.

As the framework is written in C and C++ that ultimately reduces the need for
learning the C programming language for developers. This PHP application
framework is basically introduced to build high-speed web applications.
Therefore if you’re looking for the fastest PHP framework, choosing Phalcon
should be on the top of your list.

It’s a full-stack PHP framework that comes with a lot of modern and powerful
attributes including routings, view templates, controllers, caching and ORM
(Object Relational Mapping).

Additional striking attributes

    • It can be easily installed and programmed for creating highly
      configurable web applications, mainly developed for large enterprises.
    • Known for increased program execution speed, autoloading, asset
      management, caching and security level management.
    • Using this PHP framework provides efficient memory utilization and
      ensures to optimize a system for better performance.
    • Trying Phalcon will let you experience a blazing fast solution.

Get Started With Phalcon


#6 Zend – An Object-oriented PHP Framework

Based on the object-oriented programming concept, this PHP framework uses
attributes like interfaces and inheritance that make it extendable to
accommodate burgeoning web development requirements.

It’s the best PHP framework for website development that follows agile
development methodology and helps developers to build complex enterprise-level
projects with ease and finesse. Further, this PHP framework is the best fit for
banks and IT departments.

Going deeper into this framework, you’ll find it the most efficient development
platform as it comes with MVC architecture, simple cloud API, session
management and data encryption features.

Zend is somehow typical to learn and implement. So, if you seriously want to
implement Zend features in your web application, you need to first understand
how to learn Zend framework in PHP.

Additional striking attributes

    • It can be easily integrated with external libraries.
    • It allows you to only use the components you want to integrate into your
      web app.
    • It is designed with highly-managed documentation and supported by a large
      community.
    • You can easily reuse your code as per website or module requirements.
    • Zend PHP framework packs with various functions like easy to use drag and
      drop editor, online debugging tools, scalable interface, coding tools,
      etc.

Get Started With Zend


#7 Laravel – A PHP Framework with Expressive Language Rules

Introduced in 2011, PHP framework Laravel has been continuously gaining
appreciation as one of the best PHP frameworks to create highly-secure web
applications. The reason for its popularity is the way it handles complex web
applications.

See how latest framework in PHP Laravel carry out complex web development –

Laravel’s ecosystem is large and has grown at an unprecedented pace which
boasts of platforms having instant hosting and deploying capabilities and
offering several free tutorials.

The PHP framework Laravel has been built for simplicity thus known as the rapid
development framework. As a developer, you get a rich set of features that can
breathe life into any large-scale project within a matter of days.

Additional striking attributes

    • Laravel comes with its own template engine which is called “Blade”.
    • It includes “Homestead” which is basically a packaged Vagrant box that
      lets you commence the development in a hassle-free environment.
    • It helps customize complex web apps.
    • The PHP framework ranking is highly expressive.
    • It also combined with many other features including MVC architecture
      support, data integration and migration, routing, security,
      authentication and view template engine.

Get Started With Laravel


#8 FuelPHP – A Flexible Framework

The FuelPHP framework is a simple and full-stack framework that not only
supports the ordinary MVC pattern but also evolved version called HMVC
(Hierarchical Model-View-Controller) at the architectural level.

FuelPHP is modular and can be easily extended. The reason is it takes care of
security concerns with the help of certain features like input and URI
filtering along with output encoding. It has its own authentication framework
that goes well with other smart features and detailed documentation.

At its core, this framework offers everything that is needed to build an
end-to-end web application of any size or complexity.

Additional striking attributes

    • It helps developers build high-power ecommerce stores online that are
      diverse in sizes, functionality and complexities.
    • This framework is designed with various competent features that are URL
      routing system, RESTful implementation, caching system and vulnerability
      prevention.
    • It’s highly secure and keeps extending its approach beyond ordinary
      frameworks security measures.

Get Started With FuelPHP


#9 Slim – A PHP API Framework For Web Development

PHP Slim framework as the name suggests is a micro-framework that provides you
with everything you need. When starting with a micro-framework like Slim, you
don’t need to waste time learning it.

It facilitates developers with built-in APIs to build advanced web applications
hence also known as the best PHP rest API framework for project execution.

The codebase is so tiny that you can complete the entire coding in one night.
Since it has minimalist designs this is considered one of the best PHP
frameworks for small projects.

PHP Slim framework is a stylish and open source PHP framework that comes with
URL routing and efficient class middleware architecture. It also supports
encrypted cookies, flash messaging and caching.

Additional striking attributes

    • PHP Slim framework is best suited to build simple web applications that
      have solid APIs and build with full-flexibility.
    • It allows you to write codes and also lets the developers plugin existing
      components from any other framework.
    • It’s easy to use and helps developers develop Restful APIs and different
      other services.
    • Using this framework, you’ll be able to reap the advantage of cookie
      encryption, URL routing, session management and client-side HTTP caching.
    • The best part is its user-friendliness which is achieved from active
      friendly documentation and maintenance.

Get started With Slim


#10 PHPixie – A Simplified PHP Framework

This is a relatively new PHP framework, introduced in 2012 with the objective
of creating high-performance online store websites that are read-only. It is
further capable of implementing HMVC design patterns like FuelPHP, built by
making use of independent components.

Let’s discover this PHP framework through the below image.

Its components are 100% unit tested and need a minimal dependency. There are
features like standard ORM (object-relational mapping), caching, input
validation and authorization capability that make it a robust and
highly-reliable PHP framework to consider.

PHPixie further permits you to make use of the HTML markup language, enabling
schema migration, and contains a sophisticated routing system.

Additional striking attributes

    • It’s easy to get started with this framework.
    • It is mostly considered the best PHP framework to build social networking
      websites and different customized web applications.
    • It provides an impressive and efficient routing system.
    • This open-source PHP framework is supported by a large community that
      renders active suggestions on queries generated by beginners and
      development practitioners.

Get Started With PHPixie


#11 Aura – The PHP Framework for Clean Web Development

Aura is the next top-performing PHP framework on the list. Web developers
consider it the best PHP framework for website development as it provides
spotless and neat web development for all types of web development projects.

Most of the time, it has been applauded as the best PHP database framework and
the reason is its strong compilation of independent and fully-decoupled
libraries. These libraries are well-defined and can be easily used in any
project for database synchronization.

Above all, this PHP framework is widely known to be used for any type of coding
structure. Each library integrated with this PHP framework is self-enclosed and
doesn’t rely on any other functions to run.

Additional striking attributes

    • It’s especially meant for those who demand clean and quickly accessed
      self-governing packages and libraries.
    • Aura PHP framework also offers a trivial, standard and thoroughly checked
      structure.
    • It comes with enough libraries that help create your own PHP MVC
      framework for your web application development.
    • All the associated libraries in the Aura PHP framework is
      fully-independent and can be easily used in any project without any
      dependencies.

Get Started With Aura


#12 Kohana – An Organized PHP Framework

Kohana is the second name of the fastest web development platform which proves
it’s prominence by building high-quality web applications for different
businesses.

Being appreciated as the other fastest PHP framework, Kohana has also won
developers’ hearts by facilitating them with translation tools, code profiling,
database access, validation, encryption and many other useful attributes. Using
the Kohana PHP framework, you’ll observe that it’s efficient and best to be
used to handle complex real-world projects.

More to be noted, it’s an OOP based framework and built using the strict PHP 5
objects and classes.

Additional striking attributes

    • Developers can use specific libraries with any simple tools to identify
      bugs and fix performance issues.
    • It provides simple routing and a well-commended code structure.
    • Kohana is easy to understand and also quickly get started by following a
      few steps.
    • It has secured an active community forum and developers’ channel thus
      offers instant support.

Get Started With Kohana


#13 Flight – A Speedy and Flexible PHP Framework

This is commonly known as PHP micro-framework as it is built with
micro-structure for website development. Usually, Flight PHP framework is
admired across the web development industry for easy, fast and highly-flexible
web application development.

This PHP framework goes well with the PHP 5.3+ version that is best suited to
build heavy web applications for businesses. Being extensible in nature, this
framework enables you to quickly create RESTful web applications.

Additional striking attributes

    • Well-defined and perfect routing for the database.
    • It’s a PHP micro-framework and serves best to build robust web
      applications.
    • It’s also considered as the best secure PHP framework due to encrypted
      routing attributes.
    • The framework ensures quality RESTful web application development hence
      called the best Rest service framework.

Get Started With Flight


#14 Seagull – PHP Framework to Build GUI and Command-line Apps

Seagull has gained an active and reliable position in the market due to its
fast, easy and high-quality web application development. Another reason why
industry-leading mobile app development companies prefer this framework is
plenty of documentation and large community support.

If you’re a beginner, this PHP framework will give you an opportunity to find
sample applications that can further be customized to accomplish particular
project needs.

Don’t worry, if you’re a seasoned web developer, Seagull has still a lot to
offer including best practices, modular codebase, and coding standards.

Additional striking attributes

    • Ideal for both beginners and experienced web developers.
    • It helps build big complicated applications in a jiffy.
    • It’s a mature OOP-based framework thus ensuring better coding
      implementation.
    • Seagull allows developers to conveniently integrate and manage codes and
      other resources.
    • It provides enterprise-ready and performance-oriented web design and
      development.

Get Started With Seagull


#15 Fat-free – A PHP Framework to Build Dynamic Web Applications

Fat-free! Doesn’ it sound to pronounce something clean and simple. Yes, this
PHP framework is exactly that. It’s a powerful PHP micro-framework that is easy
to use and helps build robust applications faster.

Discover how it assists in building quality web apps.

Being condensed in a small single file of size (60 KB), this framework gives
you a solid foundation and mature codebase to develop all types of web
applications in a fast environment.

Apart from offering a simple and neat web development environment, this
framework bags a lot of useful aspects including easy to use web development
toolkit, cache engine, a high-performing URL routing, built-in code
highlighting, etc.

Additional striking attributes

    • It provides ultimate support for multilingual web applications.
    • It requires no complex configuration to get started.
    • It offers a well-organized directory structure.
    • The framework ensures support for both SQL and NoSQL database connections.
    • It comes with optional additional plugins to further extend the
      application’s functional capabilities (if needed).

Get Started With Fat-free

The descriptions and well-defined features are enough to make you understand
which PHP framework is suitable for your project. But still, you aren’t sure
how to get started and which one to single out, I have some specifications for
you.


How to choose the best one among all the available PHP frameworks?

Taking a look at the below pointers will let you know all the tactics to choose
the best PHP framework for website development to accomplish your project
needs.


#Be clear about your project needs

Until you’re not sure what you’re going to integrate into your project, you
can’t be able to finalize the development platform. Basically, these aspects
are vice-versa and you need to be aware of both of these when initiating for
any web development project.

If you’re clear what you want to build, you’ll more carefully look for the
framework which possesses all the defined attributes you desire for your
project.


#Look for robust architecture

One thing which needs to be strictly followed is to look for the framework
design implementation architecture which by default emphasizes MVC
(Model-View-Controller) design pattern.

Check how strictly and tightly the selected framework follows MVC guidelines to
accomplish web application development. If we take an example, Zend is the
framework that is loosely coupled with MVC design patterns and allows
developers to experiment with different aspects as per project needs.

On the other hand, frameworks like Yii is the framework that rigorously adopts
MVC architecture.


#Make sure framework offers smooth database access

Uninterrupted database accessibility is one of the prime reasons that enforce
developers to use the best PHP database frameworks instead of solely relying on
flat PHP development .

Using PHP frameworks, developers can get the opportunity to re-use the database
access layer. This further eases the developers’ task by reducing their hassle
of working on database connectivity.

Proceeding further, you’ll get to know that there are a few PHP frameworks like
CakePHP, Zend and Yii that are famous for offering ORM (Object Relational
Mapping) connection support that ultimately makes the database programming a
lot easier.


#Check if the framework possesses built-in support

The integration of built-in support is mandatory for a PHP framework as it
helps verify whether the activities (users’/developers are pursuing) are
authorized or authenticated.

The process and permissions are required because a web page also needs
authorization and authentication to run or proceed with any work.


#Check framework for security factors

Security should be your top priority when you’re looking for a PHP framework
for web app development. It’s something that you can’t overlook as it
eventually harms the internal product’s functionality and makes it weak to
combat severe functional issues.

Therefore, if you’ve decided to go with any of the open-source PHP frameworks,
make sure it possesses ample security attributes that can keep your project
protected from all the relentless issues.


#Investigate for the framework’s community support

The fact is clear that the introduction of PHP frameworks has reduced the
learning PHP programming language up to a great extent. Here, the complete
credit goes to the large developers and programming community that regularly
introduced new procedures and helped beginners and experienced coding
practitioners with absolute solutions to their queries.

It’s mandatory to check that whether or not the PHP framework you’re going to
work with has maintained a reliable or large community as it helps you when you
will get stuck at some point and need expert assistance.

However, every framework has its own pros and cons but if you’ll recall the
above-mentioned points you’ll be able to quickly identify which one is suitable
for you and for your forthcoming project.

S o far, I’ve discussed everything about PHP frameworks but now by keeping
everything beside, I want to put the spotlight on a few major advantages of PHP
frameworks.

Going through them will make you more confident and firm on your decision of
choosing PHP frameworks for robust, dynamic and quality-assured web
applications.


Top Advantages of PHP Frameworks

Have a look at all the advantages of PHP frameworks available in the market.


#Speed up custom web app development

No matter if you’re developing a web application from scratch or want to
customize the existing one to extend functionality, PHP frameworks are always
the best fit.

It has been observed that web developers need to write complete code to create
an application. Utilizing any of the well-known frameworks will provide ample
features, tools and pre-built code snippets that help reduce your efforts and
help you create best in class products in no time.


#Eliminate the need to write repetitive codes

Generally, developers have to write lengthy codes to implement functionality
that consumes a lot of time and effort.

Thankfully, almost all the PHP frameworks are available with code generation
features that significantly eliminate the coding time and lets the developers
build first-class web applications within stipulated time frames.


#Careful and efficient database synchronization

Using PHP frameworks is a boon for those who don’t like to write lengthy SQL
codes for database connectivity. With these frameworks, you’ll have complete
access to ORM (Object Relational Mapping) support that allows developers to
simplify database operations and lead development like a breeze.


#Automate various common web development tasks

On a regular basis, developers have to work n a number of tasks except writing
code for the application. And these activities require additional time and
efforts that ultimately delay the process of web application development.

With the automated features like session management, caching, URL mapping and
authentication provided by the robust PHP frameworks, it’s become quite
convenient and fast to handle different tasks.


#Provide protection from targeted security attacks

Let us clear one thing that PHP is considered one of the most unsecured
programming platforms and requires to keep searching for different ways to
protect the system from harsh attacks.

This problem is not with PHP frameworks as these are packed with a lot of
security attributes that prevent the web application from various threats like
cross-site request forgery, SQL injections, and data tampering.


#Ensure less-expensive web app development

PHP is open-source and so all the frameworks that eventually help developers
curtain the overall development cost. The developers have full access to choose
any of the PHP frameworks from the list and integrate their project as per
requirements.

The best part is, you can do it all by not increasing or adding project
overheads. In short, you’ll have access to a less-expensive venture for your
project .


Start planning for your next project!

Every project has different needs and so it requires a suitable platform to get
all them accomplished. I don’t know what your project requirements are . But
still, I’ve curated the most prominent and powerful PHP frameworks that you can
choose to meet your project needs.

Don’t wait and unhesitatingly select the one that you consider is the best fit
for your project development.

If you think I’ve missed something, drop your opinions in the comment box. Your
views will be highly appreciated.

Download our step-by-step developmental checklist.

Request Free Pricing


Frequently Asked Questions


What is PHP?

PHP is known as an open-source server-side scripting language that has been
widely used to develop static and dynamic websites and web applications. Prior
known as “Personal Home Pages” the scripting language now transformed as
“Hypertext Pre-processor”, winning the trust of web development agencies.


What is a PHP framework?

PHP frameworks are well developed with numerous in-built libraries and custom
functions and came into the picture to provide developers’ a structured, easy
and fast way to create effective code, transforming their scripting monotony
into a fun task.


Which is the best framework for PHP?

If you’re in a fix which one to choose from the long list of PHP frameworks for
the fastest web development, CodeIgnitor is the best one you can go with.


Which PHP framework is best for beginners?

As per the observations, Laravel has been found as the best framework that can
be easily used by beginners for web and app development.


Which PHP framework is in demand?

All the available PHP frameworks make the most out of their potential but
Laravel can be on the top when it comes to single out the most demanded one.


Is Laravel good for big projects?

Laravel is packed with a variety of features like template design, MVC
architecture support, optimum security, object-relational mapping, absolute
database migration and unit test attributes that make it the prior choice for
large-scale enterprise development.


Which PHP framework is best for security?

Almost all the PHP frameworks offer built-in security features. But if you want
the best and options, Symfony and Laravel would top the list as the best secure
PHP frameworks.


What PHP framework should I use?

The debate to find the best PHP framework would be of no use as all are doing
great in the web development industry, assisting businesses in achieving their
desired goals.

Technology


Similar posts

Featured


Core PHP Vs PHP Framework

PHP today has evolved into a language that powers almost 60% of the web. Here’s
the complete guide to know the difference in development between Core...

Nishtha Nov 17, 2017
Technology


A guide to Laravel – Everything you need to know about Laravel

Laravel is the most popular open-source PHP framework designed for building web
applications in 2022. Learn to develop web applications with the...

Nishtha Jan 11, 2020
Events


NMG to Participate in the Largest Tech Expo in the Middle East - GITEX Global
2022, Dubai

GITEX Global 2022 is all set to take place in Dubai with its huge showcase of
enterprise solutions between 10-14 October 2022. Learn about the latest

Nishtha Sep 15, 2022


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.