Skip to content

Search


Trusted By B2B Businesses

More than 300 businesses from fortune 500's to enterprises, representing a
diverse range of businessmodels, use NMG's services and solutions to transform
business into measurable success.

Web

Mobile

Ecommerce

Advanced SEO


    • Migrate Outfitters

      LEISURE, TRAVEL & TOURISM

      Migrate Outfitters is about people, the great outdoors, and amazing
      wildlife.It's an Airbnb like website to create, find and book outdoor
      adventures (fishing & hunting).They bring it all together for a safe,
      seamless, and secure adventure by connecting landowners & guides with
      anyone seeking access to adventure.


    • TrainUp

      ELEARNING

      Trainup is a career training marketplace designed to search among
      hundreds of live, virtual, and online training courses that save time and
      provides better quality results compared to traditional training search
      methods. They partner with industry-leading training providers to present
      the best options for instructor-led classes and self-paced
      online/eLearning courses.


    • KnowledgeFlo

      PROFESSIONAL TRAINING AND COACHING

      KnowledgeFlo is a platform for better talent management that helps
      companies to Collect better, more accurate, relevant feedback on their
      work forces, projects and competencies.


    • Heritage International

      EDUCATION

      Heritage International Xperiential School is an international
      co-educational school associated with the International General
      Certificate of Secondary Education, International Baccalaureate Diploma
      Programme, and Central Board of Secondary Education program. It is a part
      of the Heritage group of schools.


    • International Insurance

      INSURANCE

      International Insurance informs customers about the importance of foreign
      health and travel insurance. It is a resource for them to find, evaluate,
      and buy coverage for their international move or trip.


    • Consultant Deck

      BUSINESS SERVICES

      ConsultantDeck is a critical link for connecting smart companies with
      talented consultants. Companies can quickly and flexibly engage with
      consultants who can elevate their business. Meanwhile, registered
      consultants are exposed to client opportunities where their expertise can
      be deployed for significant business impact.


    • Hugo(RGP)

      STAFFING

      RGP was founded in 1996 to help finance executives with operational needs
      and special projects created by workforce gaps. RGP helps clients get the
      right talent in the room to tackle change initiatives with speed and
      efficiency.

Client Speak


We are part of our clients journey. Your success is our success.

“ Their level of understanding of our business model really stood out to us. I
often said that they understand our operation better than our own employees do.
They communicate well in writing and on phone calls. They were very responsive
and able to make adjustments and troubleshoot very quickly.”

Brandon Kent
Vice President of Sales and Marketing,
Telemark Diversfied Graphics

“ We chose to work with NMG after interviewing/vetting ten web development
companies from around the world. NMG won our business because of their deep
understanding of .PHP and web design. The team is highly qualified and
talented. The attention to detail is excellent. Choosing to work with NMG has
been one of the best business decisions our company has made in 10+ years.”

Nate Hart
Vice President
Competiscan

“ NMG provided a level of assurance and comfort in their abilities that others
could not match.By consistently delivering high-quality work, NMG Technologies
contributed to an effective and greatly improved website. I praise their
cutting-edge design strategies, thorough research, and willingness to implement
feedback.”

Nayer Radly
Buying Intelligence,
Project Lead

“ NMG Technologies did an excellent job throughout the whole project.They
impressed by developing a thorough strategy and communicating effectively with
the previous developer. They were stepped into an unfinished, poorly executed
project and delivered an outstanding product for launch. Their professionalism,
organization, and timely delivery set them apart.”

Arthur Chileshe
Homabroad,
Founder & CEO

“ The NMG team is not only very hard working but goes above and beyond to
deliver the best possible outcomes.NMG Technologies was professional and
dedicated to delivering high quality results. They offered responsive and
engaged customer service, routinely going above and beyond to rectify any
issues. The team suggested new ideas, gave honest feedback, and became an
invaluable part of the creative process.”

Adam Bronson Nardi
Online Dating Website,
Founder & Director

“ What set NMG apart from other companies was their experience in managing
complex programs. NMG Technologies provided a detailed specification document
and appropriate software solutions from the outset, delivering results very
close to the original proposal. The team was available to discuss issues,
replied promptly to emails, and provided constant updates.”

Sai Karan Vedulla
London & Partners,
VP & Chief Representative

“ NMG's quality of work and methodology were top-notch. They put together a
very well-structured team.NMG delivered an effective, client-focused website
that met all of the original requirements. They also stood out because of their
excellent customer service, responsive daily communication, and reasonable
prices.”

Paul Kinderman
Sappy Gram,
Founder

“ I found them responsible, timely, and diligent. NMG Technologies effectively
managed the development of multiple sites simultaneously, remaining agile and
responsive to day-to-day requirements. They provided open communication and
quickly implemented feedback.”

Alex Tisdale
Educational Startup,
Former CEO

“ They were very flexible and responsive throughout the whole thing. Within
four weeks of going live, the campaign generated qualified interest from over
400 companies. NMG Technologies accomplished the entire project within three
months and under budget. The team provided strategic insights into the B2B
segment and daily updates on nominations.”

Nicholas Passero
Sports Startup,
Founder

“ NMG is very entrepreneurial, and I think that helps a lot when working with a
small company. NMG Technologies provided an exceptionally high-quality product
through an organized, technically skilled approach. The agency showed their
commitment to the project's success by working long hours, involving senior
management in the details, and communicating frequently about deliveries. ”

Steve DelVecchia
Adaptive Professional Solutions (Now RGP),
CEO

OUR CLIENTS


NMG is used by 500+ businesses and brands

We're full service which means we've got you covered on user experience,
design, development, beta testing, maintenance, updates...a long term strategic
partner not a vendor.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------