Skip to content

Search


Android App Development

“Android App Development Services: We Design, Develop and Deploy
Tailored Solutions for Businesses”

    • SERVICES
    • Mobile Application Development
    • Android App Development
Services


Future-Proof Your Business with our Android App Development Services.

NMG Technologies is your trusted partner company for enterprise-grade Android
app development services. With a proven track record of delivering
high-performance solutions, we stand out as the ideal choice for businesses
seeking to scale their presence in the digital space. At NMG Tech, we foster
long-term relationships with our clients based on trust, transparency and open
communication.


Android Application Development Services We Offer.

Android App Development Consultation
From ideation to deployment, we guide you through the entire development
process. Our team's in-depth knowledge of the Android ecosystem and our
commitment to quality & innovation ensures that your app stands out in the
competitive market. Partner with NMG Technologies to bring your app vision to
life.
Custom Android App Development
NMG Technologies is a leading provider of innovative and tailored Android
mobile app solutions. With a deep understanding of the latest Android SDKs and
development tools, we deliver high-performance, user-centric apps that drive
business growth. Our experienced team helps integrate your app with backend
systems and third-party services for optimal performance.
Android Software Testing
At NMG Technologies, we specialize in delivering top-tier Android app software
testing services. Our expert team uses the best & the latest tools and
methodologies to ensure the quality, performance and security of your mobile
applications. Our comprehensive testing process includes functional testing,
performance testing, security testing, and compatibility testing to deliver
bug-free apps to its clients.
Android App Deployment to Google Play
NMG Technologies excels in delivering secure Google Play deployments with a
streamlined process, right from app packaging and signing to release
management. We hold a deep understanding of Google Play's guidelines and
requirements as well as handling of app listings, screenshots, and metadata. We
create optimized app bundles (AABs) and secure them with robust digital
signatures, while conducting thorough testing to identify and fix issues for a
flawless user experience.
Android App Maintenance And Support
At NMG Tech, we ensure the longevity and optimal performance of your mobile
applications with services like bug fixes, performance optimization, feature
enhancements, security updates, and technical support. With our expertise in
the latest Android SDKs, tools and best practices, we guarantee the best app
functionality, exceptional user experience, and adherence to industry standards.
Android App UI/UX Design
We specialize in crafting intuitive and visually stunning Android app UI/UX
designs. Our skilled designers meticulously blend aesthetics with functionality
to create seamless user experiences. We understand the nuances of Android's
diverse user base and tailor designs to optimize performance across various
devices.


Android App Solutions for Industries.

    • Healthcare
    • Fintech
    • Edtech
    • Travel and Hospitality
    • Real Estate
    • Logistics and Automotive
NMG Technologies excels in delivering healthcare Android app solutions that
prioritize patient privacy and data security.
We adhere to stringent HIPAA compliance standards, ensuring the confidentiality
and integrity of sensitive health information. By integrating advanced features
such as EHR systems, telemedicine, and medication tracking, we enhance the
overall app experience. Our list of satisfied clients include Yew, Medofi and
Syn App.

As a leading Android app development agency, we believe in crafting innovative
and secure solutions for fintech.

We specialize in features like secure payment gateways, real-time data
synchronization, biometric authentication, and advanced analytics. For projects
such as Compound Banc, we added an investment planning calculator in addition
to the efficiently secured payment gateways.

NMG Technologies delivers cutting-edge Edtech Android app solutions that
empower learners and educators alike.

We specialize in building engaging e-learning platforms, along with simpler
apps with features like school event calendars, homework trackers, and resource
hubs. Our commitment to quality, user experience, and security ensures that
your Edtech app stands out in this highly- competitive market.

NMG Technologies excels in crafting cutting-edge Travel Android apps.

Our team of seasoned Android developers uses the latest technologies to deliver
feature-rich and visually stunning mobile app experiences. We specialize in
integrating robust APIs for real-time flight and hotel booking, personalized
recommendations, offline maps and secure payment gateways.
NMG Technologies offers state-of-the-art Android app solutions to simplify real
estate operations.
Our mobile apps include features for property listing management, client
communication, property maintenance tracking, tenant screening, and rental
payment processing.

Our apps streamline fleet management, logistics tracking, vehicle maintenance,
driver management, dispatch services, and insurance claims handling, resulting
in improved operational efficiency and customer satisfaction.


Our Core Technologies for Android App Development.

    • Android SDK
      The bedrock of our development process, the Android Software Development
      Kit provides the essential tools and APIs to build, test, and debug
      Android apps.
    • Kotlin
      We embrace Kotlin as our preferred language for Android app development
      due to its concise syntax, null safety, and interoperability with Java.
    • Java
      While Kotlin is our primary language, Java remains a strong foundation
      for Android development, especially for legacy projects.
    • Material Design
      We adhere to Material Design principles to create visually appealing and
      intuitive user interfaces.
TECH


Our Core Technologies For Magento Development.

NMG Technologies employs the latest technologies for Magento development &
creates highly scalable and
secure online store solutions.

    • Custom
    • Frontend
    • Back-End
    • Databases
    • Php
      As the primary programming language for Magento development, we leverage
      PHP 7. x and 8. x versions to create custom modules, develop Magento
      extensions, and ensure seamless interactions
    • Microsoft .Net
      Employing enterprise features and intuitive architecture, Microsft .Net
      helps us create robust e-commerce storefronts that make modern, secure &
      compliant solutions.
    • JQuery
      Using jQuery with HTML, we create dynamic, visually appealing web pages
      that deliver amazing user experience.
    • HTML
      Going beyond themes and templates, HTML allows us complete control to
      customize structure and content.
    • CSS
      We develop the style & aesthetics of online stores using CSS to establish
      a strong visual presence.
    • Bootstrap
      We give eCommerce websites a solid foundation using this versatile
      framework that allows for flexibility and customization.
    • Backbone.JS
      This lightweight framework is used to create small to medium-sized
      applications.
    • Angular.JS
      AngularJS offers two-way data binding, an ideal testing atmosphere and an
      extensive library for e-commerce developers.
    • Skeleton
      We utilize Skeleton to maintain the continuity of the interface to
      improve UX and reduce load times.
    • Python
      Known for its versatility and extensive libraries like Django and Flask,
      it is suitable for complex e-commerce applications.
    • Java
      We often use this robust and scalable language with frameworks like
      Spring and Hibernate to develop large-scale e-commerce platforms.
    • PHP
      Widely preferred for e-commerce app development due to its ease of use
      and frameworks like Laravel and Symfony.
    • Node.js
      This JavaScript runtime environment enables fast and efficient
      server-side development with frameworks like Express.js.
    • Ruby on Rails
      A high-level framework emphasizing convention over configuration is quite
      popular for its rapid development capabilities.
    • MySQL
      A widely used open-source relational database system.
    • PostgreSQL
      A powerful and feature-rich open-source relational database.
    • MongoDB
      A popular document-oriented database, offering flexibility and
      scalability for handling unstructured data.
    • Cassandra
      A highly scalable and distributed NoSQL database, designed for handling
      large-volume data.


Hire Our Experienced Android
App Developers.

With over 10+ in house Android App Developers, 5+ Mobile App Designers,
Usability Architects, QA Testers, and Dedicated Project Managers, we offer a
custom Android app development methodology to help you scale your business at
low costs.
From ideation to deployment and beyond, we provide comprehensive services,
including app design and development, UI/UX design, testing & quality
assurance, and maintenance.
Hire our team of seasoned Android developers who possess in-depth knowledge of
the latest technologies and frameworks to rest assured that your app is built
to the highest standards.

Book an Appointment


Android Apps for Mobile, Tablet & Wearable Devices.



Android Mobile App Development

At NMG Technologies, we specialize in crafting cutting-edge Android mobile
applications that flawlessly integrate with your business objectives. Our team
of seasoned Android developers follow the latest industry trends and
technologies like Kotlin, Jetpack Compose, and Android Studio to deliver
high-performance and user-centric mobile apps. From concept to deployment, we
provide end-to-end solutions, including UI/UX design, API integration, testing,
and maintenance.



Android Tablet App Development

Our team of experts uses the latest technology to design and build fast,
reliable, and user-friendly Android tablet apps. We will help you with
everything from top-notch Android tablet app design to play store deployment.



Android Wear App Development

At NMG Technologies, we develop innovative and user-centric Android wear
applications. Our team of seasoned developers uses the latest Android Wear SDK
to deliver intuitive experiences on smartwatches. From sleek UI/UX design to
strong backend integration, we ensure your app stands out in the competitive
market.

Our Process


Our Android App Development Process.

    • 01
      Brainstorm and Wireframe
      Our creative process starts with a questionnaire to get a brief idea of
      your expectations, vision and goals. Then, our team brainstorms the
      architecture and features of the Android app based on your answers to
      create a low-fidelity wireframe for internal purposes.
    • 02
      UI Design and Feedback
      Next, we create the first draft of the UI design for all unique screens.
      After an internal meeting with all the stakeholders working on your
      project, we share the final design with you. After your feedback and
      final integration of the improvements suggested, we start the development
      process.
    • 03
      Project Planning
      A functional specification document is shared with the creative designer,
      developer, QA, project manager , and client which contains detailed
      requirements and scope of development. Project planning and reporting
      tasks are also finalized.
    • 04
      App Development
      The Android app developers integrates UI and implements logical
      functionality. The deliverables are then submitted for internal testing ,
      and work is done on QA feedback. Thereafter, we deliver the milestone and
      work on client feedback.
    • 05
      Milestone delivery and Launch
      NMG will share an APK or installation link with you, and a demo call will
      also be scheduled. App launch requires enrolled accounts on Google Play
      Store for which we will share details to setup accounts, and invite NMG
      as release manager to submit apps on store for review process.
    • 06
      App Maintenance
      Our maintenance services include enhancements to keep your app up-to-date
      with the latest features, consulting service to offer strategic advice on
      app optimization and future development, support and feedback to address
      user queries, hosting server monitoring to guarantee uninterrupted app
      accessibility, and bug fixes to resolve issues and maintain app
      stability.


Why Choose Us for Android Application Development Services?

NMG Technologies offers reliable Android app development services, ensuring
high-quality solutions aligning with your needs and goals. Here are some
reasons for choosing us:

    • Experience and Expertise
      We have a team of highly skilled and experienced Android developers who
      have worked on numerous projects. Our developers have been trained to
      work on the latest technologies and frameworks, ensuring our clients
      receive the best possible solutions.
    • Customized Solutions
      We understand that every client has unique requirements, so we offer
      customized Android application development services. Our team takes the
      time to understand client’s needs and provides tailored solutions that
      meet their expectations.
    • Quality and Reliability
      We build apps that withstand heavy usage and can be easily scaled as your
      business grows. Our developers follow strict quality control measures to
      ensure bug-free solutions that meet the highest standards.
    • Cost-Effective

      We offer cost-effective Android application development services without
      compromising on quality. Our pricing is transparent, and we provide
      regular updates on project progress so that our clients are always aware
      of the costs involved.

client speak


Your Journey, Our Expertise:
Results-Driven Successful Partnerships

"NMG is my sigh of relief. Finding an SEO agency, you can trust to create
data-driven, Advanced SEO and Content Marketing strategies while staying
focused on your unique business and achieving the desired results is rare. The
personal attention they give to our projects and their ownership over the
results help us fulfill our mission to enable every person on Earth to travel
freely."
Mohak Nahta
CEO and Founder, Atlys Inc
“If you are looking for a company that truly cares about your business and your
success, look no further than NMG. Their team is knowledgeable, trustworthy,
and committed to delivering results that exceed expectations.”
Mihir Trivedi
Head of Marketing
“NMG Technologies provided a detailed specification document and appropriate
software solutions from the outset, delivering results very close to the
original proposal. The team was available to discuss issues, replied promptly
to emails, and provided constant updates.”

Sai Karan Vedulla
London & Partners,
VP & Chief Representative

"What set NMG apart from other companies was their experience in managing
complex programs and their strategic insights in the B2B segment. They did an
excellent job throughout the whole project and provided a level of assurance
and comfort in their abilities that others could not match"

Steve Delvecchia
VP Digital Engagement,
Resources Connection Inc.
(NASDAQ Listed)

Our Awards


Recognitions & Awards.

Our Process


Our Blogs.

We guide you from concept to launch of your successful Magento online store.
Our iterative Magento development process focuses on collaboration and
flexibility.


Never Miss a Goal with Koora Break!

Developed by NMG Technologies, Experience Football Like Never Before with Saudi
Arabia's Award-Winning Soccer App.

February 23, 2024

Read More


NMG Technologies to Participate in Mobile Word Capital Barcelona – the world’s
largest and most influential connectivity event

NMG Technologies to Participate in Mobile Word Capital Barcelona – the world’s
largest and most influential connectivity event

February 16, 2024

Read More


NMG Technologies Participated in Softwave 2023, The Republic of Korea Software
Exhibition

NMG Technologies Participated in Softwave 2023, The Republic of Korea Software
Exhibition

November 29, 2023

Read More
Support


FAQ’s.


Which API is best for Android app development?

Flutter API excels in Android app development, offering user-friendly
interface, rapid development cycles, and stellar performance; thus making it a
top choice.


Which platform is used to develop Android apps?

AndroidStudio, a powerful Integrated Development Environment (IDE), provides
developers with the tools and features needed to create innovative Android apps
efficiently.


Is it difficult to develop an Android app?

A simple Android app can be developed using AI these days. Beginners with basic
programming knowledge and dedication to learning, when equipped with the right
tools & resources, can build an app.

Having said that, whether said app is robust, secure, and scalable is
altogether a different ball game.


What is required for Android app development?

You will need a solid grasp of Java or Kotlin, familiarity with Android SDK,
and proficiency in Android Studio.


How much does it cost to build an Android app?

Building an Android app can vary widely in cost, influenced by its complexity,
desired features, and developer rates, which can be anywhere between $25 to
$175 per hour.