Featured


Grow your Website Conversions by 39% in 2020 – Follow these 10 Design
Optimization Steps

Your website conversions are less than 1%. Do you know why? This article will
give you 10 easy ways for your website conversion rate optimization.

Nishtha
Feb 3, 2020
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 0 minutes

You have decent traffic coming on your website, but your conversions are less
than 1%. Do you know why?
Maybe your website is not optimized for mobiles or it takes ages to load or
worse, the form does not work properly.

How do you figure out the issue and solve it?

This article is exactly that. It will give you many easy ways for your website
conversion rate optimization.

A website is your strongest lead generator and most of the time acts as a
crucial form of marketing. It is said that a website with a strong conversion
funnel (designed by keeping users’ aspects in mind) drives an optimum number of
conversions than a website created without keeping users need in mind.

There are seemingly endless ways for website design conversion optimization.
For your reference, I’ve accumulated a few tactics that are surely going to
help you optimize your web design to gain optimum revenue.

Before you invest time to optimize your website for better conversions, I want
to ask –

Do you know what are the top website design optimization techniques to bring
enhanced business revenue?

By going through this article, you’ll have complete insight on what are the
best website design conversion optimization tactics and how you can implement
them to generate quality leads. Use these tactics to make sure what steps you
need to follow while optimizing your website for better conversion results.

…

H ave you ever noticed, just after 3 seconds of your website loading, do your
visitors able to recognize the purpose of your website?

Do they find the layout of the website friendly and easy to use? Are they find
it convenient to navigate through all the existing pages?

If the answer to all these questions is “No”, it’s high time you need to look
into the ways you’re utilizing for website optimization.

If you think you’ll succeed by only throwing a captivating design for users,
you’re wrong at this point!

Because website design optimization is not limited to optimizing the design and
content aspects rather, there are a lot of factors to be emphasized when the
target is to increase website revenue.

And if you’re reading this blog, most probably you’re looking for proven ways
to improve website conversion rates.

You’ve come to the right place.

So, take a deep breath and invest a few minutes reading the blog. I’m sure when
you reach at the end, you’ll get to know the important parameters that can
transform your simple business website into a lead generation platform.


How do you identify whether your page is performing or not?

#Heatmaps

#Landing Page Report in Google Analytics

#Google Analytics Search Query Report

#Google Analytics Funnel Report


Now that you have a list of pages that need to be optimized. Let’s study how to
optimize them.

#1 Design Story

#2 Content Is Always A King

#3 Conversion Optimization

#4 Page performance

#5 Mobile-friendly/Responsive Design

#6 SEO-friendly Design – On-page Design Optimization

#7 Page Layout Structure

#8 Form Optimization

#9 A/B Testing

#10 Top Design Frameworks

Let’s start from scratch to have better insights on every web design
optimization technique –


How do you identify whether your page is performing or not?

Use these steps to see what your traffic is interested in before making any
design changes.

Sometimes, you have an idea that your website isn’t performing well but don’t
know what to fix and where to start when encountering a problem in web design
UX.

Our article isn’t less than an opportunity for web owners who are eagerly
looking for assured ways to achieve a web layout designed for conversion rate
optimization.

Check out how you can make it happen by exploring the web for a few things –


#Heatmaps

Heatmaps, as the keywords suggest are the graphical representation of data,
shown in a color-coding pattern to display different values. Generally,
Heatmaps are used to show a variety of analytic values but moreover, it is
widely used to analyze user behavior on specific web pages.

Today, Heatmaps are more likely used to check where users have clicked, for how
long they’ve been on the same page and what activities they’ve performed during
page scroll.

Implementing this technique would be highly beneficial if you want to know the
actual user interaction on target pages.

Benefits of utilizing Heatmaps

You can use Heatmaps to gather data from a large set of users without even
leaving your comfort zone. The data you’ll receive is more accurate,
representing a large set of users that are more likely to be your audience or
prospective clients who are interacting with your website in a real
environment.

It’s the best way, letting you know about every activity users have done with
your website or particular page. Most importantly, you can see the data in
different forms including –

    • Click Heatmaps – This will highlight the section where users clicked the
      mouse (or tapped through a mobile device).

    • Scroll Heatmaps – This shows where users scrolled on a web page.

    • Move Heatmaps – This will result by highlighting the users’ mouse
      movement (not clicks).

Why Heatmaps are important for conversion rate optimization?

First of all, it is required for marketers as they need bulk data to target
customers and also to proceed with further business marketing. Heatmaps show
it’s importance in different other areas where they can have an idea of –

    • Which elements of the website needs to be made clickable.
    • Where the key information should be placed on a webpage.
    • What aspects are properly working and what’s not in a page.
    • Do all the CTAs are easily identifiable by the visitors.
    • Are all the instructions displayed clearly to lead the users to the sales
      and conversion channel?
    • What elements of the page are distracting the users and need to be
      removed.

How to apply Heatmaps strategy for conversion rate optimization?

Generally, this can be done with Google Analytics and Site Catalyst. But here,
you might not be having ample information about user behavior or interaction as
these only provide information about the pages users’ have visited.

In this case, use CrazyEgg, Hotjar and Clicktale, the best tools offering
well-managed and distributed maps picturizing actual user behavior for the
website. You can go for other ones to get these activities done.


#Landing Page Report in Google Analytics

Most of the traffic is diverted through the landing page as it’s the entry
point for any website. And studying the landing page design report through
Google Analytics lets you know a lot about how your visitors arrive on your
website and what are the factors they like the most.

Additionally, this landing page report can be further utilized to see how all
the pages are performing and how well these pages convert visitors into
potential leads or customers.

Post checking all the landing page design factors, if you find the conversion
rate less than 2%, then it’s clear that your landing page needs proper
optimization.

Where to find landing pages report in Google Analytics?

You can simply access the landing page design report by following the below
hierarchy –

Behavior > Site Content > Landing Pages

How does the landing page design report used in Google Analytics and what does
it show?

As soon as you open the report in Google Analytics, you’ll find the most
popular landing pages with the specified number of visitors who have landed on
your website for a particular time period.

This is how it will look like –

As you see above, the report is clear and displays the landing page traffic
data in a well-formatted way.

If you want to accumulate a similar kind of report for your website landing
pages, you only need to register with Google Analytics. It’s the place where
you can get every information about your landing page traffic.

Apart from traffic analysis, the landing page design report is displayed with a
bunch of useful data that you can use to uplift your website for conversion
rate optimization.

Additional data you can gather from the report includes –

    • Pages/Visit – The number of pages users visit after landing on the
      initial page. It depicts how much engagement is there for your business
      website.
    • Average Visit Duration – This shows for how long (average length of time)
      a visitor stayed on your website. This information might not be 100%
      accurate but can be utilized to compare the page performance for further
      conversion rate optimization.
    • Percentage of New Visits – This is ultimately the important data set to
      see how many new users you’ve gained on your website. These users can be
      your prospective leads.
    • Bounce Rates – Having bounce rate stats makes you aware of the percentage
      of visitors who arrived on your website and left within seconds without
      viewing any other pages. If your website has a higher bounce rate, it’s
      peak time to optimize it for suitable conversion factors.


#Google Analytics Search Query Report

Search queries fall under Google Analytics which provides data on how your
website is performing in Google’s organic search results, i,e., non-paid
results. For example, it will display the search results and queries that
visitors used to click directly through the website.

In easy language, the stats will show you the results for the best performing
keywords of your website. Through this report, you’ll be able to improve your
website’s organic search results and marketing approach simultaneously.

How to Access and View Search Analytics Report?

    • Log in to Search Console
    • Then, click on the Search Traffic appear in the left-hand navigation

Here you go…

The search Analytics report is a detailed one that enables you to see the
searched data (for the last 90 days) in different formats. You can see and
filter the search results by Queries, Pages, Countries, Devices and Search Type
including – Web, Image, Video.

Going deeper into each tab, you’ll find more options to filter your results.

For example, if you want to filter the traffic results received from a
particular device, you can use the radio button under Devices option and choose
anyone from the dropdown like Desktop, Mobile or Tablet as per your
preferences.

See below image for clear insights:

There’s a lot more you can compare traffic results for your website. For
instance, there are Clicks, Impressions, CTR and Position that offer you a deep
analysis of how your website is performing organically on SERPs.

Further, you can simply customize the results as per your requirements by
clicking on each tab. To do this, you only need to check all the four boxes,
appearing on the top, to have a look at each tab result. Just like the below
image:

Doing this, you’ll be able to know what keywords of your website are performing
desirably.

&nbsp


#Google Analytics Funnel Report

This practice is all about finding all the funnel drop-offs to maximize a
website’s conversion rates.

Google Analytics Funnel Report can be used by any business sector to observe
and track micro-conversions (leads that somehow closer to purchase).

Using the funnel visualization reports in Google Analytics, you can easily
identify the leads who have submitted the contact form or visited certain pages
to show interest.

Let’s take an example of an eCommerce website to explain the sales funnel. So,
in a Funnel Report, the results will be seen in the form of –

Product Gallery — Product Page — Add to Cart — Proceed to Checkout — Shipping
Information — Billing Information — Review — Confirmation Page.

One of the most important and compelling reasons to track goal funnel is the
ability to identify the problem pages during the purchase transaction. It
describes the area where customers usually drop the activity or abandon the
cart.


Track the aspect and optimize it as per customers’ expectations.


Now that you have a list of pages that need to be optimized. Let’s study how to
optimize them.

So far, you must have got a complete idea of what pages of your website need
improvements for conversion rate optimization. You have all the reports and
stats in hand but you still are clueless about what to optimize in these pages
to attain maximized traffic and conversion.

So, here I’m mentioning a few techniques that will cover all the
above-mentioned optimization factors and help you create a conversion based
design.


#1 Design Story

It has been observed that a web page with a story is likely to convert 20 times
more than a design with no story.

In order to create better products and websites, web and UX designers must
understand what’s running in the users’ world and how their products their make
their life easier.

Designing your website by including the product’s design to launch a journey
not only makes visitors understand about the product/service but also makes
them curious to know more about the same.

This strategy always works for an eCommerce shopping portal where a new product
launch can be described using illustrations and particular graphic designs.

Let’s discover some amazing ways of how you can incorporate storytelling in
your web design to attract more visitors.

Images: Popular brands always use images to portray their product story and
customer satisfaction. You can take an example of any famous brand, you’ll find
their pages integrated with captivating images designed to create convincing
and pleasant stories.

Here, we have an image of Dove brand explaining everything in a single image.

Making your website meaningful and story-based can solve half of your problems
of leads generation. It’s the best tactic for conversion rate optimization and
can be better implemented by –

    • Carefully choosing images
    • Create content that communicates product’s main value propositions
    • Synching the images and story with one another to bring out a story

Illustrations: Just like images, illustrations possess the quality to portray
the exact message to the visitors. An added advantage with illustrations is,
you can describe the step-by-step process, conditions or relationships of any
aspects.

This website design optimization practice works when you want to illustrate a
process or work of any product to readers. These are very clear and arranged in
such a manner so that visitors have no doubt in getting the described point.

Just like the below image –

The image clearly portrays how an illustration is made and can be used to
create a successful design story.

Powerful Words: We know it’s a different approach away from the visual side.
But, if you follow the approach of keeping powerful words in your web design,
nothing can stop your design from getting successful.

Here, the motive is to include effective phrases and not lengthy descriptions
as these would bore the audience after some time.

So, if you want to optimize your web design for better conversions , you need
to put short yet compelling content wherever you find sufficient scope. It can
be anywhere from menu bar, the content you offer or the words on call to
actions.

Adding Personalities: Stories that are told in person leave a great impact on
visitors. Adding pictures and videos of business personalities becoming an
increasingly important aspect to create a modern web design.

Adding real pictures fascinate visitors and bring an interest that you’re
yourself explaining your brand story and the future goals with the offered
product.

Interactivity: Besides images, illustrations, parallax scrolling and others,
there are many other website design optimization techniques to engage visitors
to the pages and that is by incorporating interactive elements. You can make it
happen by making the visitors a part of your story.

For example, you want the visitors to complete a task to reach the desired
page. In this case, create a story with images and micro-interactions by giving
them an option to choose themselves as a story character.

See the below image for example:

Similarly, you can create a story as per your business conversion requirements.

Apart from the mentioned ones, you can also include Parallax Scrolling, Social
Media and Video integration in your best design story practices for conversion
rate optimization.


#2 Content Is Always A King

A website can’t be imagined without content. Even if it is not content-based,
it still requires a few phrases or content to describe the motive of the page.

Content creation is crucial when it comes to gaining excellent results from a
website. And it can only become possible if your content is effective,
attractive and seems actionable to users.

Let me tell you how you can optimize your content so that you can get maximized
leads and conversions.

    • Create page titles
    • Create meta tags
    • Place strategic search phrases on pages
    • Develop new sitemaps for Google and Bing
    • Submit websites for directories

These are the standard ways that help optimize the website content to achieve
enhanced lead conversions.

On top of these strategies, I’m describing a few more proven techniques that as
per me are effective in for content marketing and optimization. So, this can be
done by –

    • Creating awareness and educational content
    • Preparing promotional content to cross all the marketing funnel
    • Integrating more social media visuals
    • Optimizing your landing page content as per requirements
    • Creating more relevant and useful content
    • Leveraging your customers for trustworthy content
    • Preparing and distributing presentations for major services


#3 Conversion Optimization

Conversion rate optimization is tricky but beneficial if done correctly and
effectively by utilizing the gathered website traffic data.

Most of the time, a website is optimized for repetitive points that other
competitors are also using to attain great conversion results. You need to try
something out of the league if you genuinely want your website to perform
outstandingly across the web.

Here are a few most effective techniques you can implement to achieve great
website optimization results.

Design every page for a specific purpose: Your page should be designed to
accomplish a specific purpose. For example, if you want to target people to
subscribe to your ebook, the page should be intended for subscribers only.

Keep your best content above the fold: Above the fold is the most captivating
area of your website which you can embellish by adding clear and meaningful
marketing content. And according to UX designers, this area is highly crucial
to attaining conversions.

Integrate dynamic pop-ups: You must have seen instant pop-ups, asking for
signup for a newsletter or any other email-related services, just when you
access a web page for information. These pop-ups not only attract users but
also compel them to fill the form to avail target service. Ultimately, it’s the
best strategy for a website conversion rate optimization.

Make the form simple and short as possible: Users are in a hurry these days and
want quick actions to be performed to complete any activity over the web. Being
a website owner, it’s your duty to design your contact or inquiry form as
simple and short as possible. It will help increase conversions by maximizing
the user base for your website.

Make your page CTAs clear and meaningful: CTAs play a significant role in
leading the users’ toward sales funnel. Therefore, these should be designed by
keeping the page and target audience in mind.


#4 Page Performance

The study says that there’s a direct relation between site speed and search
engine rankings. So, if your website is fast to load, it’s ultimately optimized
for ranking factors.

If you go through the article, you’ll know how important is it to make a
website fast to load .

Basically, consumers demand fast website and so Google prefers it too.
Therefore, speeding up the website is mandatory when you’re up for maximizing
the conversion rates of your website. You can initially make it happen by –

    • Switching to a fast web host
    • Using a Content Delivery Network (CDN)
    • Compressing images
    • Using browser caching

There are different online page speed optimization tools that you can use to
track and improve the site’s performance metrics. GTMetrix , Pingdom , Google
Page Insights , WebPageTest , etc. are the most widely used tools for page
speed optimization.


#5 Mobile-friendly/Responsive Design

To gain users’ trust, you always need to play smart by understanding their
specific needs and demands. You need to observe the way modern users approach a
website. Unsurprisingly, mobile devices winning the battle as users are more
likely to access information through mobile as compared to desktops.

But it doesn’t mean you’ll not design your website for desktop users. Because
if you focus on mobile designing, you might lose desktop users.

To eliminate this hassle, build a responsive website along with the integration
of mobile-friendly features. This way you will offer something that serves both
mobile and desktop users uniformly and help improve your business conversion
rates.


#6 SEO-friendly Design – On-page Design Optimization

Website optimization for SEO is crucial and can’t be missed at any cost. This
is the phase where you prepare your website for higher ranking on SERPs. Making
your website design SEO-friendly is time taking but if you optimize the
following aspects, you’ll be able to present your website for Google.

Meta Title: Optimizing meta title for length, major keyword and target purpose
is the primary step when it comes to making a website SEO-friendly.

Meta Description: Visitors usually turn around to the link if they find the
meta description effective and subject-oriented. Therefore, it should be
optimized in such a manner that it summarizes the page’s content objective.

Header Tags: Defining target (or you can say, focus or main keyword) in the
header tags is a sure shot technique to bring your page on the top of search
results. So, always make sure that you keep your target keyword in the main
page header.

Image Alt Tags: Image Tags are used to describe the image and its purpose for
the page. It helps visitors get the image and take desired action based on
their understanding. So, whenever you optimize the website for SEO, make sure
you’ve placed relevant image text to all the images.

URL Optimization: URLs of the website should be created by using target
keywords. The reason is, when users search for the keywords, Search Engine
displays the matching URLs and connects them with the relevant content.

Canonical URLs: By defining canonical URLs to the main page of your product
pages, you ultimately allow search engine to prevent your website from
duplicate content issues. Therefore, if your website possesses different pages
under the same page or category, make sure you specify your main page with a
canonical tag.

Website Speed Optimization: Fast loading websites are the need of the hour as
this brings visitors interest in the accessed link and compel them to stay for
long over there. Increase your website’s loading time if you want to attract
more visitors.

Mobile Optimized Website Design: Today, more than 50% of the searches are being
initiated through mobile devices as users find it a suitable and easiest way to
fast information access. Hence it’s proved that creating a mobile-friendly
design can solve half of your problems of customer retention and lead
generation.

Low Text to HTML Ratio: Basically, the text to HTML ratio represents the
correlation percentage of the content to be actually displayed on a web page.
It needs to be between 25% to 70% and if it is, your website is SEO-friendly.


#7 Page Layout Structure

Having an uncluttered website layout structure is a boon as it always drives
optimum traffic and creates an urge in users to come back again. Ultimately, it
helps businesses gaining quality leads and maximize conversions.

If you also want the same success in your case, start optimizing your website
for page layout structure.

Let me tell you how…

Smooth Navigation: Smooth navigation is enough to impress a user by your
website. It’s the initial point which decides whether you get a lead or fail in
meeting the visitors’ expectations.

If you really seize the users on your website, make sure you create not only
smooth but clean and uncluttered navigation. This includes easy flow, nicely
integrated CTA buttons, well-managed menu bar, quick and relevant page
direction and many more.

Clean Design: The next thing you can do to optimize your web design is to keep
it clean and simple. Every web designer has different definitions of clean
design but the most common facts they all have explained are –

    • Clutter-free
    • Minimally adorned
    • Adequate use of white space
    • Usage of color schemes as per requirements
    • Clean edges with straight lines
    • Big, bold and well-managed typography
    • Powerful imagery

Emotional Touch: It is observed that aesthetically pleasing and captivating
experiences empower website usability and increases the user’s willingness to
move ahead.

The trend also helps users learn and adapt things easily and fast. If you
incorporate persuasive emotion features in your web design, this will
definitely enable the particular emotion in users which enforces them to take
swift decisions.

Elements you can add to create an emotional design –

    • Emotional memory link – Add elements that stay in users’ mind like a
      memory.
    • Aesthetic usability effect – Design integration to attain outstanding
      usability.
    • Persuasive emotion – The feature that compels users to take further
      action on a particular page.
    • Ownership effect – Create a sense of personalized ownership for users.


#8 Form Optimization

Everything you do on your web page is always to maximize the quality of traffic
and organic engagement. So, what do you think you’re doing to the percentage of
your website engagement?

You must have placed a form with relevant fields to gather users’ data. It’s
great and undoubtedly the best tactic to redirect maximum people towards
promoted service exposure.

There are not so many definitions or ways when it comes to optimizing the
landing page for better conversions. But still, there are some that are proven
and work well for conversion rate optimization.

It’s sure that if you implement the below-mentioned facts you’ll be able to
convert your lead generation form into a conversion optimization platform.

Let’s discover, what you need to do to attain the quality results:

Place the form above the fold

It’s a great idea to keep the lead generation form above the fold as the
elements placed here instantly captivate users’ attention and compel them to
click the CTA.

There are a lot of benefits of keeping the form above the fold as you can get
an insight through the below graphical representation.

Reduce the number of fields in the form

Minimum form fields lead to maximum conversions. It’s not the theoretical fact
rather, many case studies are there to prove this concept of how keeping
minimal fields in a form is beneficial.

You can check the case study here to know how the website increased revenue to
a great extent just by removing unnecessary fields from its checkout form.

Also, make sure not to make every field mandatory by defining the asterisk
sign. It frustrates users which ultimately enforce them to switch from the
running task.

Include website’s privacy policy to wash off all the doubts

You design a form for prospects to lead them to complete the proposed action.
It’s the common activity and of course the tactic that can bring maximum users
to your site and convert them into leads. It’s very effective especially in the
case of mobile-forms.

Here the question is how you will build that trust so that they don’t hesitate
to fill the form.

Basically, you can do this by including the privacy policy at the end of your
form page. If you consider users’ privacy as your priority, it will definitely
affect their course of action and establish trust among them.

Form without privacy policy phrase integration.

Form with privacy policy phrase integration.

Here, you need to be careful by not making or placing such statements like
“100% privacy – we will never spam you”. Instead, go genuine and relevant when
it comes to targeting your users for the promoted service.

This is how you can optimize your form for better conversions.


#9 A/B Testing

A/B testing is required to test both (mobile and web) versions of a web
application on different parameters. It’s a process where two or more variants
of a web page are randomly shown to users to make statistical analysis.

The technique is not even useful to check page performance but also beneficial
to analyze which version should be used to attain conversion goals.

When you run the A/B test, it will ask you focused questions about the changes
in your website. Later, the process iterates by collecting the data about the
particular change.

Why You Should A/B Test Web Application?

Going through the below points will make you understand why A/B test is crucial
to make a website conversion-optimized.

    • A/B testing allows teams, individuals and companies to make careful and
      appropriate changes to the website’s UX while collecting data on the test
      results.
    • The test also permits them to construct hypotheses to learn why certain
      UX elements impact user behavior.
    • A/B testing can be continually used to improve the user experience of a
      website and also lead it to attain the goal of conversion rate
      optimization.
    • This testing procedure lets them track the combined effects of multiple
      winning changes and prepare a final report based on old and new UX
      improvements.

See the results of A/B test through the graph:


#10 Top Design Frameworks

You might not have emphasized more on choosing web design frameworks at the
time of your website development. But let me tell you one thing that it’s the
most crucial aspect, making a website robust, powerful and user-friendly.

You may find a lot of web design frameworks but choosing the best ones from
them is still a tough task. Fret not! Because, I’ve done the research work for
you and listed top design frameworks, offering responsive, scalable, rich and
interactive websites and applications.

Here are these –

AngularJS: AngularJS is considered the best framework to create awe-inspiring
web applications. Launched by Google, this framework is designed with
flexibility and a rich set of functions. This framework requires fewer efforts
and provides fast and high-performance web apps in return.

Striking Features of AngularJS

    • TypeScript support – For bulky applications
    • Two-way data binding – For high-performance
    • Dependency Injection – For an important design pattern
    • Template syntax and command-line interface – For initializing, developing
      and maintaining web applications.

AngularJS is widely known for its many other best features. So, if you’re up
for building a single page dynamic web application, AngularJS should
essentially be in your web designing and development toolkit.

ReactJS: ReactJS is an open-source JavaScript library that has been introduced
and maintained by Facebook. Due to the best interface design features, it’s
been largely supported and utilized by a big community of developers.

Earlier, the framework was widely used as a building tool for eCommerce
websites but today, it has been accepted as great support for web application
developers.

Striking Features of ReactJS

    • Declarative – ReactJS is easy to understand and use and makes it quite
      easy to create impressive web applications.
    • Component-based – Helps design encapsulated components and later merge
      them to build complex UI.
    • Learn once write anywhere – Lets you create new features without
      re-writing the entire code.

Using ReactJs as your web development framework helps you get an arresting
website integrated with amazing user-friendly features.

Material UI: If you’re looking for a front-end framework that can easily adhere
to Google’s material design guidelines, Material UI is the absolute option you
can go with. You can use this framework to integrate material design features
into your existing design.

Striking Features of Material UI

    • Loaded with ready to use CSS
    • Possesses material design compliant components
    • Integrated with CSS-in-JS- solution, offering theme nesting and dynamic
      styles
    • Highly customizable

It’s good if your website is based on any of these frameworks as it’s already
being designed by keeping users’ and industry’s perspective in mind. And if
not, start planning to design it using the mentioned frameworks.


Ready To Optimize Your Web Design?

Understanding a variety of users (who visit web pages) and their intent
significantly help improve the flow of a website. And fortunately, you’ve all
the data that can help you understand the user intent and traffic patterns.

But make sure to be careful while using this information for website
optimization it can lead to information analysis paralysis, as a result,
nothing gets done.

That said, if you limit your search and utilize the above-mentioned website
optimization techniques, you’ll set your business up for 2020 and beyond.

Thanks for reading this blog. Feel free to share your thoughts on this and if
this was useful in the comments below.

If you found this information interesting, Subscribe to our blog to receive
more solid helpful resources once a week in your inbox.

All the best!

Request Free Pricing


Frequently Asked Questions


What is a conversion rate?

The conversion rate is basically the overall percentage of users (out of total)
who take the desired action on the website to buy something. You can also
consider it the measurement tool to check your site’s performance from the
users’ point of view.


What is a website conversion?

A website conversion takes place when a user completes the action to a website
and proceeds to purchase the service or item. Users most probably do it by
signing up for a newsletter, filling out a query form, social media share and
finally making a purchase. Here, the percentage calculation of total visitors
that get converted (users who purchase something) is called a website’s
conversion rate.


What is a good website conversion rate?

The average landing page or website conversion rate is considered 2.35%. But
the theory transformed with the update that around the top 25% of websites are
converting at the rate of 5.31% or more higher.

If we ignore the conversion rate update, it should still be at least 2% for
every website or landing page. And if it’s not, your website needs conversion
optimization.


Why is conversion rate optimization important?

Conversion rate optimization is a simple process to enable and compel visitors
to take action when they go through your website. It ultimately your website
user-base and of course the target audience that can be your leads or quality
conversion in the future.


What is a conversion in SEO?

There can be various definitions of conversion rate in terms of SEO. But in
simple words, it’s the result or report which depicts the exact sales or
purchase done on a website.

In SEO, conversion rate optimization is all about finding ways that can help
increase website quality traffic and leads. And fortunately, this can be easily
done by using Heatmaps, landing page report analysis, Google analytics search
query report evaluation and Google analytics funnel report scrutiny.


How can I increase my website conversion?

Everyone has their own ways to optimize a website for conversions. But there
are a few most important steps that are commonly used by all of them to earn
more from their website through increased conversions.

Best conversion rate optimization ways are as follows:

    • Initially, create a conversion optimization strategy based on gathered
      users’ data.
    • Creatively optimize your conversion funnel by knowing the loopholes
      throughout product search to purchase process.
    • Determine whether or not your website is serving ideally to the users.
    • Keenly check what’s working and what’s not through user behavior analysis.
    • Smartly optimize website design.
    • Amuse users with different form styles.
    • Add unique and compelling CTAs.
    • Run A/B testing.
    • Eliminate distractions from the website.
    • Speed up the website by removing unnecessary heavy elements.
Featured


Similar posts

Marketing


The top 5 CTAs you must have on your website

CTAs are essential to a website's success If you decide to recreate these CTAs
on your site. Here are 7 great call-to-action examples to inspire you!

Nishtha Jul 4, 2016
Web


12 Must Have Pages On Your Ecommerce Site

Getting an e-commerce website developed? Take your e-commerce website to a new
level with these 12 must have pages on your ecommerce website.

Nishtha Dec 22, 2016
Technology


Top Web Building Tools and Platforms

Looking for user-friendly website building platforms that help you manage your
website? Here’s the list of top website building tools & platforms for...

Nishtha Nov 16, 2017


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.