Skip to content

Search


Leadership Team

Empowering growth through unified leadership.

    • COMPANY
    • Leadership Team


Rohit Maheshwari

Co Founder & Director

Rohit holds an MSc in Business Systems Analysis and Design from City University
London, and has accumulated over 20 years of experience in the field. He began
his career at a leading digital agency in London, serving major entertainment
clients such as 20th Century Fox, New Line Cinema, and PlayStation. In 2008,
Rohit founded NMG in London, and later relocated to New Delhi to establish a
world-class offshore delivery center.

Rohit was instrumental in setting up tech teams for Adaptive Professionals
Solution, a startup founded in New York in 2010. Adaptive was eventually
acquired by RGP, a NASDAQ-listed company in 2018, and began working on their
new brand product, www.HugobyRGP.com. To this day, Rohit and NMG continue to
work closely with Hugo as a core tech partner.

In addition to his professional accomplishments, Rohit is actively involved
with the Entrepreneur Organization (EO), Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
and served as Chair for Gurgaon CII-Young Indians 2022-2023. He is also a
member of the G20 Young Entrepreneur Alliance and has represented India on
multiple bilateral missions with G20 partner countries.


Mohit Maheshwari

Co Founder & Director

Mohit has over 22 years’ experience in Digital Marketing, SEO, Web development,
Ecommerce and has been in the SEO industry since the very beginning 1999. He
began his career by working with clients, agencies in US, UK, Australia and
setting up remote teams for them across a whole wide spectrum of Digital
Solutions .Over his career Mohit has helped many large brands, Public Sector
enterprises, Technology start-ups with Digital Marketing Solutions across
Advanced SEO, Paid Search, Digital PR, Display Ad network Advertising and Web
and Mobile platforms development.

He has worked on Digital Marketing campaigns across his career for clients like
Citibank, Intuit, Bacardi, Nikon, JWT, IPG Media Brands, Max Group, WHO, ICICI
Bank, Andreessen Horowitz (a16z), Godfrey Philips, TUI, Durex, Yahoo!, Motorola
and many more. Some of his major accomplishments with NMG has been for large
campaigns for clients like London and Partners and their India Emerging 20
awards, Biggest Social media marketing lead book launch for Penguin Publishing,
Online Fund raising for President of Nigeria, Digital Marketing for New York
Times bestselling author Ron Kaufman and his consulting service, Fund raising
for Oxfam international - are just to name a few illustrious campaigns.

As a speaker, Mohit has presented at conferences like Internet Retailer
Chicago, HIVE San Francisco, Microsoft Digital Advertising India conference,
IAMAI, Skill India (Govt. of India) and many more. In addition to his
professional accomplishments, Mohit has been head of Search Engine Marketing
Professionals Organization (SEMPO), India and has worked in marketing committee
of NASSCOM and help produce NPC Bangalore in various editions. Currently Mohit
is actively involved with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and Young
Indians (Yi).


Mohit Maheswari

Education & Experience:

    • Over 22 years of experience in Digital Marketing, Web development, and
      Ecommerce
    • Worked with clients and agencies in the US, UK, and Australia, setting up
      remote teams for various digital solutions.
    • Expertise in Advanced SEO, Paid Search, Digital PR, Display Ad network
      Advertising, and Web and Mobile platform development.

Clients & Brands:

    • Citibank
    • Intuit
    • JWT
    • Godfrey Phillips
    • TUI
    • Motorola
    • IPG Media Brands
    • WHO
    • ICICI Bank
    • Andreessen Horowitz (a16z)
    • Nikon
    • Yahoo

Achievements & Recognitions:

    • Speaker at conferences including Internet Retailer Chicago, HIVE San
      Francisco, Microsoft Digital Advertising India conference, IAMAI, Skill
      India (Govt. of India), and more.
    • Head of Search Engine Marketing Professionals Organization (SEMPO), India
      in 2016.
    • Marketing committee member of NASSCOM.

Industries & Associations:

    • Nasscom
    • Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
    • Sempo


DC's Wolomi Startup got funded by Google

The wolomi app is an educational and supportive resource for women of color who
are pregnant or new mothers. Wolomi is a community of women of color creating
an empowering journey for modern-day mothers to be navigated the health care
system for better outcomes. Everything is on the same convenient platform.


$4.25 million seed funding round
led by Andreessen Horowitz.

Produced by the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, Getty Unshuttered is a
positive community for teen photographers like you to share your unique view of
the world, grow your skills, and build your portfolios. It’s free to use and
ad-free, too

Platform developed that allows users to keep track of recommendations from
other users in their Vouch Vault or they can share their own. This product
primarily fulfills the common use case of “I need to remember that” every time
a friend says “you’ve got to read this book, see this documentary, download
this song, buy this product, try this restaurant, etc.”

From this platform users can keep a list of things they’d like to try, and if
they end up loving them, move those items in the list of things they Vouch for.


"Equipment repair and bringing cost efficiencies in backend operations. The app
is being used by over 2000+ anytime fitness and procure gyms."

Fixed Fitness platform allows Fitness equipment owner, manager and instructor
to connect with fixed Fitness technician to consult and resolve any issue
related to fitness equipment. Customers can also get parts of their equipment's
changed through the platform. The app provides the fastest way to find out what
is wrong with fitness equipment.

Gluten Dude app is a platform that help people eat gluten free for those who
are suffering from celiac disease. This platform believes that whether people
are travelling, socializing, or just need a quick bit to eat, people living a
gluten free lifestyle should be able to eat safely and comfortably.

This App strive to help people find gluten free friendly business and share
their experiences with other members of gluten free community. This will raise
awareness for celiac disease and other food sensitivities.



It is a medical chat platform where medical workers communicate within their
facility as well as other facilities.

Medical workers will communicate via chat, audio and video call. App has
security features to protect sensitive material sent in the app.

Music licensing and live streaming platform to facilitate music licensing by
independents and small artists. Musicbed is all about enabling artists to do
what they love while providing filmmakers and production studios with an
inspiring selection of music to license for their projects

Client Speak


We are part of our clients journey. Your success is our success.

“ Their level of understanding of our business model really stood out to us. I
often said that they understand our operation better than our own employees do.
They communicate well in writing and on phone calls. They were very responsive
and able to make adjustments and troubleshoot very quickly.”

Brandon Kent
Vice President of Sales and Marketing,
Telemark Diversfied Graphics

“ We chose to work with NMG after interviewing/vetting ten web development
companies from around the world. NMG won our business because of their deep
understanding of .PHP and web design. The team is highly qualified and
talented. The attention to detail is excellent. Choosing to work with NMG has
been one of the best business decisions our company has made in 10+ years.”

Nate Hart
Vice President
Competiscan

“ NMG provided a level of assurance and comfort in their abilities that others
could not match.By consistently delivering high-quality work, NMG Technologies
contributed to an effective and greatly improved website. I praise their
cutting-edge design strategies, thorough research, and willingness to implement
feedback.”

Nayer Radly
Buying Intelligence,
Project Lead

“ NMG Technologies did an excellent job throughout the whole project.They
impressed by developing a thorough strategy and communicating effectively with
the previous developer. They were stepped into an unfinished, poorly executed
project and delivered an outstanding product for launch. Their professionalism,
organization, and timely delivery set them apart.”

Arthur Chileshe
Homabroad,
Founder & CEO

“ The NMG team is not only very hard working but goes above and beyond to
deliver the best possible outcomes.NMG Technologies was professional and
dedicated to delivering high quality results. They offered responsive and
engaged customer service, routinely going above and beyond to rectify any
issues. The team suggested new ideas, gave honest feedback, and became an
invaluable part of the creative process.”

Adam Bronson Nardi
Online Dating Website,
Founder & Director

“ What set NMG apart from other companies was their experience in managing
complex programs. NMG Technologies provided a detailed specification document
and appropriate software solutions from the outset, delivering results very
close to the original proposal. The team was available to discuss issues,
replied promptly to emails, and provided constant updates.”

Sai Karan Vedulla
London & Partners,
VP & Chief Representative

“ NMG's quality of work and methodology were top-notch. They put together a
very well-structured team.NMG delivered an effective, client-focused website
that met all of the original requirements. They also stood out because of their
excellent customer service, responsive daily communication, and reasonable
prices.”

Paul Kinderman
Sappy Gram,
Founder

“ I found them responsible, timely, and diligent. NMG Technologies effectively
managed the development of multiple sites simultaneously, remaining agile and
responsive to day-to-day requirements. They provided open communication and
quickly implemented feedback.”

Alex Tisdale
Educational Startup,
Former CEO

“ They were very flexible and responsive throughout the whole thing. Within
four weeks of going live, the campaign generated qualified interest from over
400 companies. NMG Technologies accomplished the entire project within three
months and under budget. The team provided strategic insights into the B2B
segment and daily updates on nominations.”

Nicholas Passero
Sports Startup,
Founder

“ NMG is very entrepreneurial, and I think that helps a lot when working with a
small company. NMG Technologies provided an exceptionally high-quality product
through an organized, technically skilled approach. The agency showed their
commitment to the project's success by working long hours, involving senior
management in the details, and communicating frequently about deliveries. ”

Steve DelVecchia
Adaptive Professional Solutions (Now RGP),
CEO

OUR CLIENTS


NMG is used by 500+ businesses and brands

We're full service which means we've got you covered on user experience,
design, development, beta testing, maintenance, updates...a long term strategic
partner not a vendor.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------