Marketing


Digital Marketing 101: The Guide You Were Waiting for!

Digital Marketing 101: The Guide You Were Waiting for! Here we bring you our
expertise in guiding you to the Digital Marketing Path.

Nishtha
Jan 28, 2016
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 7 minutes

With the increasing number of new entrepreneurs and small startups coming up in
the business market, designing and formatting the right mix of digital
marketing strategies is absolutely imperative for any company.

Here we bring you our expertise on guiding you to the Digital Marketing Path.

An interactive webinar was conducted by NMG’s co-founder and Managing Director
Mr. Mohit Maheshwari in which he discussed the Digital Strategies and the
Marketing Approach.

The webinar covered some practical steps which can be taken for carefully
strategizing and executing the digital marketing campaigns.

The webinar touches upon some central issues faced by new businesses and
startups like:

    • Tips to build and grow your business website
    • Tips to attract more traffic to your website
    • Practical strategies for SMBs and Startups
    • Plethora of tools and resources to maintain and enhance your business’s
      online reputation

SMBs and startups face a multitude of challenges in growing and operating their
business.

Since the employee strength is low, the management is pressed for time that is
to be devoted to several important business concerns.

A small organization needs to focus on its core business line and make time for
paying attention to their chief offering/product.

Limited finances become a cause of concern since the company website and
digital marketing is not given priority and in several cases, a clear marketing
strategy also doesn’t exist.

Digital marketing strategies are absolutely imperative for any company

The very first step for a growing startup is to build a smart website that
becomes your point of contact and communication tool with the client and
external audience.

  Marketing Tactics You Can Steal From Your Competition

Any kind of online marketing strategy or effort to enhance online reputation
would need the foundation of a strong and powerful website.

It must be designed to meet client requirements and not simply be a part of
your marketing plans. It should be flexible enough to steadily evolve with your
business growth.

As a business grows, clarity on the distribution of roles is needed. There are
internal stakeholders as well as outsourced teams that can work in conjunction
and accomplish projects.

It is always advisable to have the right mix of skill sets in order to achieve
the best possible results. Since budget is a concern in an SMB one person can
play multiple roles and a small team, if good can be equally effective within
the realms of quality work.

Since budget is a concern in an SMB one person can play multiple roles and a
small team if good can be equally effective within the realms of quality work.

It is important to focus on planning and project management as this brings to
successful closures of tasks. Further, as a business, you must decide that
everything cannot be outsourced and everything cannot be done in-house.

In a nutshell, the idea is to be a smart spender when the budget is tight and
the team is right to successfully carry on your digital journey.

Project management is extremely important in any business.

When working on a single project that entails multiple tasks, it is necessary
to be on the same page with all the team members; hence, the utility value of a
project management tool cannot be undermined.

Basecamp and Trello are some of the tools that ensure effective management of
all projects.

For a small business that is starting out its journey into the digital world,
it is fore mostly important to have an understanding of the customer base.

Knowing your customer and its internal and external influencers will enable you
as a business to delve deeper into the customer psyche and see what is that
they are looking for?

Knowing your customer and its internal and external influencers will enable you
as a business to dive deeper into the customer psyche and see what is that they
are looking for?

 Learn About  How To Increase Your Website Traffic by 50%

For instance, your client could be anybody in the business crowd; it could be
an ad agency, it could be brand/product managers or even directly another SMB
owner. A digital marketing strategy basically runs on good quality content.
Good quality content brings value to the users and aids in reputation
management as well. By content we do not necessarily mean text, but also a
variety of modes via which content can be perceived:

    • Imagery/video
    • Audio
    • Flash presentations
    • Photographs (user generated/stock photos)
    • Social media feeds
    • User generated content (industry round ups, guest posts, customer reviews
      etc. )

It may also interest you to note that having the thought process of a magazine
business operation can actually help your digital marketing strategy strike the
right chord with the customers.

Just like different magazines cater to a different type of target audience,
your business can also appeal to different clients, each having their own set
of needs. Even their operations are similar to a digital marketing agency’s in
scope and range.

Once the business philosophy is set, you can go ahead and build your web
presence with the help of sitemap, wireframes and content structure.

A blueprint is required when working at this step as it gives out an outline of
how you want your business to project itself. Before making up the sitemap,
perform an SEO research which will help you with the right keywords.

A good sitemap and wireframe structure will give you the base to put down a
good and aesthetically pleasing website design. Planning out a design and
getting feedback on it from personal as well as professional colleagues will
give you a fair idea and make implementation easier.

There are few ways by which you can give out feedback to designers and get
feedback for your own design.

Give feedback:

    • Invision App
    • Red Pen
    • Bounce App
    • Prevue
    • Go Visually

Get user feedback (Before launch, Post launch – tools):

    • Critique the site
    • Please critique me
    • User testing.com
    • Feedback Army
    • Usabilla
    • Five second test

There are also some tools which can be used to improvise design based on actual
user feedback. You as a business should know the means to measure audience
interaction and their opinion on your website. They tell you according to the
real-time audience actions on your website design, landing pages and ways to
improve upon them. Below are some of the tools for same.

    • Lucky Orange
    • Chartbeat
    • Session Cam
    • Clicky
    • Woopra

Growing traffic to your website is quite a task. Here two types of ways can be
put to use to help grow your website traffic and enhance online reputation.

  12 Must Have Pages On Your Ecommerce Site

One is content, using content via organic SEO, writing fresh and rich content
such as articles, white papers, blogs etc., social media and emailers.

The other mode is media based; this involves a paid form of promotions like
ads, paid SMM, etc.

Both these means must be used in unison to derive the desired benefit as the
positive effects would last a lifetime of positive perception about your
company and services.

There could be a number of ways by which effective marketing can add value to
your SMB. Here are some of them:

   1. Getting interviews which would make your business famous at a basic local
      level. Or interviewing an authority of your business and putting it up on
      your blog.
   2. There are various tools which you can use for effective PR outreach and
      Media mentions:
    • HARO – (Detailed guide on HARO)
    • Muck Rack
    • Reporter Connection
    • Media Kitty
    • Profnet by Prnewswire (PAID)
    • Source Bottle
    • Pitching notes
    • me
    • My local reporter
    • Expert Engine
   1. Crowd sourcing a book
   2. Link building exercises
   3. Building or developing an interactive tool or application
   4. Getting competitor links
   5. Guest blogging. It helps your business brand and leadership and helps in
      getting new customers and build industry relationships. There are various
      tools available for this:
    • Myblogguest
    • Guestr
    • Blogdash
    • Bloggerlinkup
    • Buzzstream Tool
    • Guestblogit
   1. Designing infographics
   2. Live blogging and tweeting about an event
   3. Press releases
   4. Sponsoring event for bloggers
   5. Developing and promoting ebooks
   6. Giveaways
   7. Newsletters

In the end, what is important is your thought process as a business and how you
make use of the aforementioned tools and ways that can take your business to an
entirely new horizon.


Frequently Asked Questions


1. What is digital marketing?

Digital marketing is typically a series of actions taken through different
channels by any brand marketer to promote the specified services and products.
In this highly competitive era, it is the only source which is helping
businesses achieve their desired targets and profit goals.


2. What are the types of digital marketing?

Most used and effective digital marketing types include -

    • Search Engine Optimization
    • Search Engine Marketing
    • Paid Advertising through PPC
    • Affiliate Marketing
    • Content Marketing
    • Email Marketing
    • Influencer Marketing’ and
    • Viral Marketing


3. What are digital marketing tools?

The list of digital marketing tools consists of:

    • Google Analytics
    • Google Adwords
    • MailChimp
    • BuzzSumo
    • Asana
    • HootSuite
    • Buffer, etc.

All these tools are highly beneficial and can be used to bump up the ranking
and traffic of a website.

Apart from the mentioned ones, you can also use the following tools to keep
pace with the competitive market edge. The tools are -

    • Google Keyword Planner
    • AppAnnie
    • Ahrefs
    • Serpstat
    • Facebook Audience Insight


4. What companies need digital marketing?

These days, digital marketing has become the need of the hour. Be it a
start-up, middle scale company or a big enterprise, every entity needs digital
marketing to uplift the market value among its competitors and target audience.


5. Why do you need a digital marketing strategy?

Digital marketing in today’s world helps improve a brand’s engagement with its
customers. The tactics involved in digital marketing strengthens customer
relationships but also helps a brand achieve optimum success and maximized
profits.


6. What do you mean by digital strategy?

You can consider digital marketing a well-planned pathway to maximize the reach
and profit of the brand. To implement a digital marketing strategy, you need to
be focused on your business goals and should be prepared enough to take the
right initiatives.


7. What are the best ways of digital marketing?

Be prepared to implement the below tactics if you wish to have a well-planned,
focused and thoughtful digital marketing strategy for your business.

The effective ways to achieve exceptional digital marketing results are given
below -

    • Search Engine Optimization (SEO)
    • Search Engine Marketing (SEM)
    • Digital Display Advertising
    • Content Creation
    • Social Media Marketing (SMM)
    • Retargeting and Remarketing
    • Mobile Marketing

It is sure, if you iterate the process diligently, you’ll be able to receive
classic results for your digital marketing campaign.

Marketing


Similar posts

Featured


NEW MEDIA GURU’s Webinar & Workshop on “Digital Marketing Strategies for SMBs &
Startups” – Spreading Knowledge and Making Careers!

Digital marketing strategies for SMBs & Startups - The workshop covered
practical steps for developing and executing Digital Marketing campaigns.

Nishtha Jul 30, 2014
Marketing


10 Marketing Tactics You Can Steal From Your Competition And Beat Them

Learn how to beat your competitors with a better marketing strategy. These
marketing tactics will help you steal more customers from your competitors.

Nishtha Apr 8, 2017
Growth


Marketing Tips for SMBs

It's a time for small business owners to think about new marketing tips. Follow
these marketing tips that could make the difference for your small...

Nishtha Mar 25, 2015


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.