Featured


NEW MEDIA GURU’s Webinar & Workshop on “Digital Marketing Strategies for SMBs &
Startups” – Spreading Knowledge and Making Careers!

Digital marketing strategies for SMBs & Startups - The workshop covered
practical steps for developing and executing Digital Marketing campaigns.

Nishtha
Jul 30, 2014
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 4 minutes

“[Mohit’s] webinar gave us great guidance on how to go about getting links. The
visuals were really helpful and gave us a good idea on how to think like an
SEO. We happened to have a career day at school one week after listening to the
webinar and were excited because there was a journalist there and we felt we
could relate to him because of the webinar. Making parallels with the magazine
industry really helped to paint a picture for us.“ – Onadi, Narciso & Shamiek

Not even a year back, Mr. Mohit Maheshwari, Managing Director at New Media
Guru, hosted a workshop and webinar in October, 2013, highlighting Digital
Marketing Strategies for SMBs & Startups. The workshop, covered practical steps
which Startups and Small Medium Businesses (SMBs) can use for developing and
executing Digital Marketing campaigns.


WEBINAR TAKEAWAYS

A number of core techniques and tools, which enable quick, go to market
strategies were discussed in detail in the webinar, developed and delivered by
Mohit. The attendees were given over 25+ strong, actionable digital marketing
ideas on which they can start work right away.

The “Digital Marketing Strategies for SMBs & Startups ” webinar holds
information on:

-How to build your Digital strategy
-How to construct your customer persona
-How to build and grow your website, social traffic
-How to continuously attract traffic to your website, social platforms using
SEO, Social Media, Email Marketing,
-Video marketing, Blog Marketing, Outreach campaigns & Digital PR
-How to set up, track and manage your online reputation
-Tools for tracking

Watch Webinar video recording here http://goo.gl/67lygh


THE CORRESPONDING SUCCESS STORY

Mohit revealed the secret sauce and that helped NMG acquire 6000+ views on
slideshare and youtube through the webinar. Recently, this webinar became a
part of a workshop in NYC to educate and impart knowledge to a group of
students by Revision Ventures.

The Program: Revision Ventures stimulates thriving local economies in which
underutilized young people, small businesses, and community residents foster
prosperity in one another and work together to close the wealth gap.

   1. Revision Ventures trains and directly employs an underutilized pool of
      young people to generate online awareness and support for local
      businesses via Internet marketing.
   2. Small businesses get access to reduced rate Internet marketing services
      so they can find and encourage more customers in the community to shop
      small and locally.
   3. Community members give small loans to a portfolio of businesses within
      their zip code. Loans are used for online marketing services to ensure a
      healthy social and financial ROI when local businesses prosper.
The venture owner and program head, Cecilia, approached Mohit to be a part of
the program as a Guest mentor and congratulated New Media Guru for a great work.

The Approach: In order to reach out to a bigger pool of people, Cecilia, the
venture owner and program head, on the behalf of Revision is taking a community
development approach. She says, “The reason I’d like to talk to some
individuals who dropped out of high school and then went on to become
successful marketers or digital marketers is that I’d like to have some guest
speakers or webinars for the participants of the pilot program. I’d like them
to hear stories from people who were in similar situations and went on to use
the digital marketing space to their advantage.”

The student participants of the workshop were really satisfied with the digital
marketing tactics and tools shared and found the webinar to be very helpful in
understanding Digital Marketing , Content marketing , SEO, Link building
techniques and Social media marketing techniques which can help SMBs.

[Mohit's] webinar gave us great guidance on how to go about getting links.

The visuals were really helpful and gave us a good idea on how to think like an SEO.

We happened to have a career day at school one week after listening to the

Webinar and were excited because there was a journalist there and we felt we could

relate to him because of the webinar.Making parallels with the magazine

 industry really helped to paint a picture for us." - Onadi, Narciso & Shamiek

Post the workshop, a feedback and Q&A session was arranged. The students had
many queries and Mohit answered those for the students with a promise to help
in future on more queries if they should arise.

Featured


Similar posts

Marketing


Digital Marketing 101: The Guide You Were Waiting for!

Digital Marketing 101: The Guide You Were Waiting for! Here we bring you our
expertise in guiding you to the Digital Marketing Path.

Nishtha Jan 28, 2016
Growth


Marketing Tips for SMBs

It's a time for small business owners to think about new marketing tips. Follow
these marketing tips that could make the difference for your small...

Nishtha Mar 25, 2015
Marketing


10 Marketing Tactics You Can Steal From Your Competition And Beat Them

Learn how to beat your competitors with a better marketing strategy. These
marketing tactics will help you steal more customers from your competitors.

Nishtha Apr 8, 2017


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.