Featured


ADA Compliance Checklist – Is Your Website Compatible?

If you want to find out how to make your website ADA-compliant. Here's the
complete guide to ADA Compliance Checklist for Websites & why ADA compliance is
important.

Nishtha
Nov 14, 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 14 minutes

If you’re someone who has no Idea about the ADA compliance, ADA stands for
Americans with Disabilities Act and it’s a set of regulations which would help
physically limited users.

Well for a lot of us, while accessing the website is second nature. But for
people with some physical limitations, it is indeed challenging in some cases
like accessing the tools and services provided by the websites.

To make the websites and its services equally accessible to everyone, ADA
standards guidelines were created and they need to be implemented in developing
a website.

Long before people heard the term e-commerce, The Americans with Disabilities
Act was passed in 1990. Twenty years after the US Department of Justice
released an update called the 2010 ADA standards for Accessible Design.

Learn About  Web Design Best Practices – 10 Stunning Examples

These standards cover the design of physical spaces and have been interpreted
to include web locations as well, so it can be difficult for the would-be
accessible website designer to use them.

So, while the ADA itself may not be very specific about web compliance, the
goal is clear: that we reach the same level of accessibility online that
disabled people are guaranteed by law offline.

Whom does ADA apply?

In a nutshell, businesses covered by the ADA are:

    • A Company with more than 15 employees
    • Public services at state and local levels (Covered under title II)
    • Business operating for the benefit of the public and non-profits.
      (Covered under title III)

we would discuss more what these tiers are and where they are applicable.
Most businesses are covered under title III, which guarantees:

The full and equal enjoyment of goods, services, facilities, or accommodations
of any place of “public accommodation” by any person who owns, leases, or
operates a place of public accommodation.

Public accommodations include most places of lodging, recreation,
transportation, education, and dining, along with stores, care providers and
places for public display like museums.

While this was obviously written for physical products and locations, case law
seems pretty clear that it extends to online business and information as well.

Many private clubs and religious organizations may be exempted, however,
because they are neither public accommodations or commercial facilities.

However, if you are working with the federal government, you are actually
covered under an entirely different piece of legislation.

Companies that work directly with or take money from the federal government are
covered under section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, which includes
significant constraints that may impact website style and design.

Most businesses don’t need to worry about 508 compliance but those who do can
use the same tools to bring your website “up to code” that you can for ADA
compliance.

ADA Violations and Penalty:

Violations of the aforementioned standards can lead to hefty penalties. Based
on the violations, your penalty will be judged, penalties could go up to a
$1000 or you could even face a lawsuit.

So what are the levels of compliance?

WCAG 2.0 guidelines are exclusively developed for directing the non-compliant
website owners to transform their websites without any difficulty.

There are a total of 3 different levels of confirmation and success criteria:

Level A

It isn’t really a difficult compliance but Is also provides the least benefit
to impaired users.
The focus of this level is in making it easier for reading on the browsers and
also to navigate and translate the website.

While this is an improvement for many websites, it doesn’t make a side as
accessible as the DOJ would like It to be.

Level AA

This level is a little bit more significant and makes sites very much
accessible to the people with the wider range of disabilities, including the
most common barriers to use.

It won’t impact the look and feel of the site as much as Level AAA compliance,
though it does include guidance on color contrast and error identification.

Most businesses should be aiming for Level AA conformity, and it appears to
reflect the level of accessibility the DOJ expects.

WCAG 2.0 level AA also appears to be roughly equivalent to the standards in
section 508, although WCAG documentation is more specific and more clearly
defined than what’s included in section 508.

Level AAA

This is the most demanding level of accessibility compliance, and it will
significantly affect the design of the site.

However, it also makes a website accessible to the widest range of people with
disabilities.

As mentioned earlier, under each WCAG 2.0 principle is a list of guidelines,
and under each guideline are compliance standards, with techniques and failure
examples at each level.

Some of them include level A items; others include items for multiple levels of
compliance, building A to AAA. At each stage AAA

In this way, many websites include elements at multiple levels of accessibility.

So How to create an ADA compliant website?

It is really important when working for a government agency or government
contractor, as these organizations must follow web accessibility guidelines
under the Section 508 of the Workforce Rehabilitation Act of 1973.

Although ADA and section 508 compliance are very different, the published
checklist for Section 508 offers insight into ways to make websites accessible
for people with disabilities, and thereby work toward ADA compliance.

If you wish to check your website for accessibility, use the accessibility
checklist published by the US department of health and human services. Read here
.

And here is the checklist:

    • Every image, video file, audio file, plug-in, etc. has an alt tag
    • Complex graphics are accompanied by detailed text descriptions
    • The alt descriptions describe the purpose of the objects
    • If an image is also used as a link, make sure the alt tag describes the
      graphics and the link destination
    • Decorative graphics with no other function have empty alt descriptions
      (alt=””)
    • Add captions to videos
    • Add audio descriptions
    • Create text transcripts
    • Create a link to the video rather than embedding it into web pages
    • Add a link to the media player download
    • Add an additional link to the text transcript
    • The page should provide alternative links to the image map
    • The tags must contain an alt attribute
    • Data tables have the column and row headers appropriately identified
      (using the tag)
    • Tables used strictly for layout purposes do not have header rows or
      columns
    • Table cells are associated with the appropriate headers
    • Make sure the page does not contain repeatedly flashing images
    • Check to make sure the page does not contain a strobe effect
    • A link is provided to a disability- accessible page where the plug-in can
      be downloaded
    • All Java applets, scripts and plug-ins and the content within them are
      accessible to assistive technologies, or else an alternative means of
      accessing equivalent content is provided
    • When form controls are text input fields use the LABEL element
    • When text is not available use the title attribute
    • Include any special instructions within field labels
    • Make sure that form fields are in a logical tab order
    • Include a ‘Skip Navigation’ button to help those using text readers

If your website meets all of the above-mentioned criteria, it is likely
accessible to people with disabilities. The best test is to obtain feedback on
the site’s ease of use from people who are deaf, blind and have mobility
disabilities, then address their feedback with site improvements.

When collecting feedback, ask users what type of adaptive technologies they
use. This will let you make your website according to the client requirements
and it will help you appoint resources toward the best compliance options.

Navigating the internet is particularly challenging for the people with limited
or no vision.

Many blind people use specialized web browsers and software that works with
standard web browsers, like internet explorer, which has features that enable
users to maximize their internet use and experience.

Get to Know about  5 Mistakes You Can Avoid When Collecting Design Feedback

This screen reading software reads the HTML code for websites and gives the
user a verbal translation of what is on the screen.

Web app developers need to keep this in mind when creating a website.

The best screen readers use naturalized voices and alter tone and inflection
based on HTML tags, so choose layout elements carefully.

It is also important to keep in mind that navigation is significantly slower
when using a screen reader that it is for sighted people.

Sighted people don’t have to wait for the reader to get to the link we want –
we spot links quickly and are able to navigate to our sought items, often
without having to do any reading at all.

Minimizing graphics also helps shorten reading times and speed navigation for
disabled users.

Don’t wait for user feedback to discover the gaps in your website’s
accessibility. Simple testing would tell you where the site has too many
graphics, and where HTML tags don’t convey information accurately.

It’s wise to do trial runs with as many of the most popular screen readers
available:

Here are some of them

    • Apple’s VoiceOver is built into OS X Lion
    • JAWS works with Microsoft Windows
    • Windows comes with a standard screen reader called navigator
    • Windows Magnifier is not a text to speech screen reader, but allows the
      visually impaired user to magnify specific parts of the screen; check
      your site for visibility magnifier.
    • WebbIE works on windows machines and incorporated browsing, screen
      reading, RSS, Podcatcher and other tools
    • Thunder works on windows machines in tandem in WebbIE, and Is a screen
      reader for accessing the computer GUI and web browsing
    • Access Firefox is a Firefox add-on that offers additional accessibility
      to Firefox users
    • Fire Vox is a text to speech add-on for Firefox

Development tools and tutorials exist to help web designers meet compliance
standards and go beyond to offer disabled users are the enjoyable experience
which makes them come back again.
Check out the following information, it will surely help you

    • HTML Best Practices for accessibility
    • Microsoft’s Accessibility Overview and tutorials
    • Introduction to ARIA
    • Semantic HTML

There are many web accessibility tools which will help you in developing an ADA
compliant website

    • Accessibility Evaluation toolbar for Firefox
    • The Develop menu in safari’s toolbar
    • WAVE web accessibility Evaluation toolbar for Firefox
    • WAVE web accessibility evaluation tool for websites and HTML
      Opera
    • Web Accessibility Toolbar for IE-2011
    • VisCheck for accessibility for people with colorblindness
    • mobiReady for evaluating accessibility from mobile device
    • Stanford University’s Web Accessibility Checker

But why creating an ADA compliant website important?

The US Department of Justice released new amendments to ADA, which are designed
to improve web accessibility.

The act now requires all businesses and nonprofit service providers to
integrate accessibility accommodations for websites and electronic media, so
the disabled public gets to enjoy the same ease of access.

With these amendments, the need to have an ADA-compliant website with improved
accessibility is now more important than ever.

So, making your website more accessible comes with added benefits as well – it
promotes good design practices and can increase the crowd visiting your website.

How does ADA compliance affect your business?

For most of the businesses, the need for ADA web compliance means they will
need to make at least some adjustments to all of their online marketing
strategies.

For instance, if your company provides tax preparation services, all of the tax
forms you provide for customers to download would need to meet accessibility
standards.

Any online tax preparation services that you offer would also need to be
configured so they meet ADA standards, as would your mobile app.

If you own lodging services like hotels or inns, you probably have a travel
website or a mobile app, virtual concierge through your twitter account, and a
reward program that loyalty club members can access through a social site. All
of these web components should be audited and adjusted to meet compliance
guidelines.

If your web designer has used responsive web design when creating your online
marketing strategies, you’re already meeting many of the ADA complaint
regulations for hotel websites.

You will still need to make some changes, but you definitely have a head start.

Making the changes right away, before your business is the target of a lawsuit
or government action, makes good business sense.

So how do you make sure your website is ADA compliant?

There are 5 steps which will make sure your website is ADA compliant.

Find an ADA agency

Mention ADA compliance to many web developers and you may encounter a blank
stare.
What you need to do is find an agency working with the web platform or
framework you use and ask about how their development workflow addresses
accessibility.

Most platforms have a partner directory. From there, you can start vetting
agencies for their actual experience with web accessibility.

For instance, if you have an eCommerce website, you should generally stitch to
an agency that specializes in the platform. Almost all the major platforms do
support ADA compliance.

You should also aim for agencies that have experience with various tools that
checks a website’s accessibility.

Audit your code

The immediate step is running an audit on your site.

The tools will crawl your site and identify all the areas that do not meet web
accessibility standards for ADA compliance.

The results will give you a very clear sense of the work involved so you can
budget properly and weigh the benefits.

Who knows, your website could already be fairly complaint, leaving you with a
lot less work to do.

Determine the level of effort to become compliant

At this point, an agency can use the report to gauge the overall level of
effort and provide and estimate.
Good partners will sit down with you and plot out a budget, some timelines, the
proposed deliverables and some expectation management.

Perhaps the task list is so large that this approach is just not feasible for
your company.

But at least, you’ll understand where you sit with ADA compliance and can plan
to address it in the near future. Some critical work is usually better than no
change at all.

Put in the work

Once the project has been properly road mapped, it’s time to get to work. Your
development agency will start to work on the various tasks and be able to
communicate how these changes will positively affect the user experience.

Here are some common ADA issues and the solutions to them

    • Images on your site must have some alternative text associated with them
      in the event they do not render on a device or the user is unable to see
      the image. The alternative text will then clearly describe what that
      element is. Without that text, some of the screen readers will not
      understand what information is being presented.
    • If the colors on your site for important elements like buttons do not
      have enough contrast, then it is hard for users to discern what the
      button is and where it should go.
    • If various inputs for forms on your website do not have proper labels,
      this makes it hard if not impossible for certain ADA devices to interpret
      their function.

Stay up to date on compliance standards post launch

ADA compliance isn’t a set it and forget it thing!

Compliance standards keep on updating and you need to update your website too.

There are certain guidelines which all the websites need to follow to be ADA
compliant.

It is usually not much of a burden, but it does require some web managers to
change their workflows.

For example, loading images up to your eCommerce site will always need some of
that alternative text.

What do you get if your website is ADA compliant? Is the question everyone
would obviously have in their head.

I will mention 5 reasons to make your website ADA compliant.

You wouldn’t want to lose your customers

Not every person in the world is the same, there are many people with different
disabilities.
To be in the competition you need to take into account the needs of all your
potential customers.
If you are unable to provide a service or information about your products or
services to any of your customers, your competitors will readily make it
instead of you.

ADA compliance websites make the range of your potential customer wider.
According to the American community survey, the percentage of people who have a
disability in the US is about 12% as of 2015 which is not a small number and
over half of them are employed.

Which means without ADA potential customers who could be interested in your
products or services. As people with disabilities visit your website, they will
simply not be able to access the information they need, not to mention the
purchases if you have an e-commerce website.

You could lose on your money

If your website is not accessible, your potential customers cannot access the
information on your website.

Especially if it is an eCommerce website, imagine all the sales you would make
if your website was already compliant.

It will build your reputation

Building a supportive business that cares about customers is the right way to
go, which will bring you closer to success.

Once you take a step towards making your website ADA compliant, you will obtain
impressive results.
New customers will come and will share information about your ADA compliant
website and its services with their peers, relatives, and friends. Which gains
an attractive image of your company and build a good reputation.

The Government wants your website to be compliant

Remember the laws I have mentioned which are implemented?
Yes, you need to make your website and applications ADA compliant otherwise you
need to face the lawsuit along with some fine. Good luck with that!

It won’t affect your website

Making your website and apps ADA complaint will not affect the design or
business of your website, as I have mentioned above it actually does well for
you.

Conclusion

From Government related firms to E-commerce websites, owners should anticipate
in making their website ADA compliant. Not just for business purposes but also
for the practice of good design techniques.

Avoid litigations by getting ahead of the curve, and improve your customer
service along the way by implementing ADA compliant techniques.

On some occasions, all it takes is some awareness. If you think you need to
make your website ADA compliant or check if it is fairly complaint, we are
ready to help you with that.

NMG has its own ADA compliant professionals, that can provide professional help
in making your website and also mobile applications ADA compliant.

Contact us here!

Request Free Pricing


Frequently Asked Questions


1. What is ADA compliance?

ADA is stated as Americans with Disabilities Act. This regulation is
specifically introduced and amended for the people who face difficulty in
accessing the digital entities. ADA standard generally states that all the
electronic and information technology must be easily accessible to all the
people having disabilities.


2. What is ADA 508 compliance

ADA 508 actually falls under Section 508 Rehabilitation Act which ensures that
all the people have equal rights and access to all goods, services and
communication. It is a federal law which describes that all electronic and
information technology information developed, maintained, procured and used by
the federal government should be accessible to people who’re having
disabilities.


3. What is an ADA compliant website?

An ADA compliant website is that can be accessible to those people who’re
having trouble with their vision, hearing or any other physical capacities.


4. When is ADA compliance required?

The ADA (American Disabilities Act) provides the complete rights to the people
with any type of disabilities to access digital information like normal people.
For business owners, there are certain rules and regulations that will make
them understand when ADA is legally required to be implemented.

The criteria are as follows:

    • If you’re associated as a local, state, country and federal government
      agencies
    • If you own a business that depends on the general public for their benefit
    • The Act is also for privately-owned companies that staffed 15 or more
      employees
    • Charitable and non-profitable organizations that operate for the general
      public welfare are also liable to implement ADA act


5. Why is ADA compliance important?

ADA is most crucial for today’s businesses as the government has made the rule
mandatory that people with physical, mental or any other disabilities have full
right to get access to all types of services. No matter, the services are
digital or physical, businesses now need to be ADA compliant and offer the same
services they make available for people without disabilities.


6. Is ADA compliance mandatory for websites?

Yes of course. Although there are no such straightforward set of rules for
website accessibility but it doesn’t mean that your business will not be
presented to any lawsuit. So, if you make your website ADA compliant, you are
open to reap a variety of benefits like -

    • Increased target audience
    • Improved SEO results
    • Maintained website reputation
    • Overall better website usability
    • Penalties can be avoided


7. What is ADA testing?

ADA is pronounced as American Disabilities Act. It’s a law that have passed by
the American government establishments in 1990 to protect the information
access rights of people disable people. To check the accessibility of such
websites, law-suits have introduced ADA testing process where website testing
is done by disable people (having color blindness or hearing aids) to test the
functional usability.


8. How to test a website for ADA compliance?

Testing a website for ADA compliance is mandatory to make it accessible for
people having visual or hearing impairments. The best way to get it done is by
conducting an automated or manual test by disable people.

You can also make it happen by following the given checklist -

    • Include proper alternative (alt text) for images to make the information
      sense clear
    • Check whether the website is easily operable
    • Also test if it’s perceivable
    • Website for disable people needs to be understandable in all manners


9. How much does it cost to make a website ADA compliant?

Approximately,the cost to make a website ADA compliant may consume between
$3000 to $5000 and above. The cost that ADA compliance incurs may vary
depending upon the number of pages and current state of the website.


10. How do I get ADA certified?

To get ADA certified, you need to go through a proper certification process.
The requirements that need to be fulfilled are -

    • First, enroll for a prerequisite ”ADA Basics” course and complete the same
    • Continue with the course and complete 40 training credits that are
      assigned and approved for the certification program
    • Showcase your content mastery for the same by enrolling for an online exam
    • Time duration to complete all the above-mentioned requirements of ADA
      Coordinator Training Certification Program is 3 years


11. What are ADA standards?

ADA standards are to be applied while designing, construction and alternation
of different facilities and elements for impaired people. The standards are
mandatory for the places of commercial facilities public accommodation and also
include state and local government facilities. The best part is that the ADA
act is now available and applied to the websites to let disable people access
the digital information without any trouble.

Featured


Similar posts

Web


12 Must Have Pages On Your Ecommerce Site

Getting an e-commerce website developed? Take your e-commerce website to a new
level with these 12 must have pages on your ecommerce website.

Nishtha Dec 22, 2016
Marketing


The top 5 CTAs you must have on your website

CTAs are essential to a website's success If you decide to recreate these CTAs
on your site. Here are 7 great call-to-action examples to inspire you!

Nishtha Jul 4, 2016
Technology


Top Web Building Tools and Platforms

Looking for user-friendly website building platforms that help you manage your
website? Here’s the list of top website building tools & platforms for...

Nishtha Nov 16, 2017


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.