Skip to content

Search


How Sunshine Movers’ Organic Traffic Increased by 464% in 12 Months

When Sunshine Movers approached us at the inception of their business, they
needed assistance launching a site focused on their services for worry-free
moving and packing in the US. In addition, the site needed more traffic,
authority, and leads. NMG strategized for Sunshine Movers an Advanced SEO
campaign, Content strategy, data driven and conversion- oriented Website
Development game plan. The results were remarkable, and we accomplished our
goals within the first year!

Back


SYNOPSIS


464% Increase in Organic traffic

Our expertis e mad e a remarkable impact on Sunshine Mover's website traffic in
just 12 months. T hey experienced an
astounding 464% rise in organic search results and 400k+ impressions on their
website .


RESULTS


464%
Organic Traffic Increased


4,00,000 +
Impressions Gained


1500 +
Organic clicks increase


200+
keywords in Top 10


250 +
keywords in Top 20


CAMPAIGN RESULTS


ENGAGEMENT HIGHLIGHTS

NMG Advanced Search E ngine O ptimization (SEO) strategies such as master
keyword research , content marketing and web site development generated so many
leads for this movers and packers client that they had to hire additional sales
team and expand their sales department.


A comprehensive Competitor research conducted by NMG helped to identify the
best strategies for rapid growth. Through this analysis, we could understand
competitors SEO tactics and strategies that successfully improved their online
performance. The analysis also provided us with valuable insights into which
content topics resonated with their target audience and how to optimize
keywords for search engine ranking. This research also gave us some competitors
which the client never knew about and ended up gaining new insights in the
movers and packers industry.


We implemented an Advanced SEO strategy for Sunshine Movers that combined
technical SEO and website audits to identify and fix website technical errors
and improve the website structure. This led to a dramatic spike in website
traffic by 464%, gaining 400k+ impressions. Hence, our SEO strategies provided
a major boost to Sunshine Movers.


Using Master keyword research and analysis, our team crafted a Pillar and
cluster content approach for the website. First, we carefully organized content
by different topics and user intent. Then, we evaluated the potential
effectiveness of each cluster to determine what was successful for Sunshine
Movers and which elements needed optimization. With this approach, we produced
200+ unique website pages and ran effective content campaigns that
significantly increased website traffic by 464%.


SEO STRATEGY

Sunshine Movers is a reputable moving company in the moving and packing industry
 in Florida . However, d espite their excellent services, they were struggling
to rank high on search engine results pages (SERPs), which meant stagnant
online visibility, traffic, and revenue.

Sunshine Movers' website had many technical issues and only a few pages when
they approached NMG. We conducted a comprehensive competitor analysis and SEO
audit to pinpoint the issues on the website and crafted the best strategies for
rapid growth. We implemented technical SEO tactics, content marketing,
link-building strategy, a nd ongoing web site maintenance to achieve this goal
that improved their site health.


The first step was to do the complete SEO Audit and advance competitor research
to find the issues and gaps and create the strategy for an ongoing campaign for
them.


We did in-depth master keyword research and created a structured sitemap that
helped develop and produced 200+ pages for state, city, and specialized moving
and packing services and map them with user search intent and interest.


We created a sitemap , wireframes , designs and detailed content briefs ,
content for new location and service pages to address the specific moving and
packing services Sunshine Movers offers.


In On-page optimization, we did optimization of the header, page title, meta
description, and image SEO and ran a detailed SEO Checklist, which covered more
than 100+ SEO On-Page factors.


We optimized structured data and implemented schema tags using Product Schema,
Breadcrumb Schema and FAQs Schema to capture more real estate on Google SERP
and ensured the website was search engine friendly.


We created data driven content briefs and Long form Epic guides targeting
different industry topics for capturing top of the funnel traffic.


ON-SITE SEO PROBLEMS

When we conducted a deep website audit that identified glaring errors needing
immediate resolution. Then, w e
pinpointed more threatening elements and began our SEO process by eradicating
them.

PROBLEM 1 – META TITLES AND DESCRIPTIONS WERE NOT OPTIMIZED
Meta Titles were not optimized, and Meta Descriptions were missing on all the
website pages, affecting its ranking in SERPs.

Before -

After – After thorough keyword research, we created and optimized Meta Titles
and Meta Description with their targeted keywords, which led to significant
growth in the website’s visibility and improvement in its search rankings.

PROBLEM 2 – LACK OF SEO-BASED CONTENT ON THE WEBSITE

The website lacked content depth and engaging content throughout its pages that
could educate and inform users about the company’s services and pricing. This
resulted in poor user experience and a decline in website traffic, low user
engagement, high bounce rates, and poor search engine rankings.
NMG developed a comprehensive content marketing strategy for Sunshine Movers.
We created informative and engaging content throughout the website, including
guides, location pages , blog posts, service pages, and landing pages. The
content was optimized for search engines, including relevant keywords and
phrases, to improve the website's visibility on SERPs, increasing its traffic
by 166%.

Before -

After -

PROBLEM 3 – SCHEMA MARKUP TAGS WERE MISSING

Before – Schema tags for organization, breadcrumbs, FAQs, etc., were missing
across the website.

After – Therefore, we implemented relevant schema markup codes and FAQs across
the website.

PROBLEM 4 – BREADCRUMB WAS MISSING
Breadcrumb was missing on the website pages, affecting its visibility, and
ranking.

Before -

After - We implemented breadcrumb on the entire site and implemented breadcrumb
schema code. It helped improve the website’s technical health.


OFF-SITE SEO AND LINK BUILDING

The off-site process, which is popularly known as linking building is a much
needed complement to the on-site activities.
Therefore, f rom the very outset, we dedicated a team of link building experts
who focused on link building,
industry outreach , link earning to create a strong link profile. 

BACKLINK PROFILE GROWTH

We have listed Sunshine Movers in the Top 100 US Citations which help to
increase Local SEO ranking and more visit in Google Map.

We have optimized Google My Business profile and ran the local SEO audit
checklist (100+ Points) and Google My Business Optimization checklist (50+
Points) to increase visibility on Google Map Results.


VERTICAL/INDUSTRY INSIGHTS


According to industry trends, moving and packing services are highly
location-based, and people generally search for these services in their local
area. Therefore, we created location-based pages and focused on Local SEO
strategies to target different locations individually.


Instead of limiting ourselves to location-based topics, we produced a series of
Guides across a broad industry topic to expand our campaign reach and gain top
of the funnel organic traffic.


As a moving and packing services provider, online reputation is crucial to
success. Therefore, we incorporated customer feedback and testimonials on the
website to showcase their experience on the services offered by Sunshine
Movers.


Blake Fitzpatrick


Owner and Founder


(Sunshine Movers)


“NMG is a game changer in the SEO industry. We have worked with several other
agencies, but none came close to the level of expertise, creativity, and
result-driven focus that NMG brings. Their SEO experts know how to craft
winning strategies that give real and measurable results.”

OUR CLIENTS


NMG is used by 300+ businesses and brands

We’re full service which means we’ve got you covered on digital marketing ,
advanced seo , design , development and content right through to growth

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------