Design


10 Best HTML & CSS Frameworks for 2015

We’ve put together this list of the 10 best HTML and CSS frameworks to choose
from which will help you in getting you and your site recognized.

Nishtha
Mar 25, 2015
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 4 minutes

Frameworks contain predefined code enabling your website making process faster,
easier and aligned. Functions provided by these frameworks enhance the coding
styles and make them consistent throughout the development. We’ve put together
this list of the 10 best HTML and CSS frameworks to choose from which will help
you in getting you and your site recognized.

SimpleGrid – Was created for developers who were in need of a bare bones grid.
Simple Grid works well with 1140px layouts and easily adapts to any size
layout. With fluid columns, Simple Grid is responsive down to mobile.

Pure – Is a set of small, responsive, CSS modules usable in any web project but
crafted with the mobile device in mind. Allows you to customize your styles
with Skin Builder to help you design your own style.

Responsee – A intuitive responsive CSS framework which even a beginning web
designer can handle. The framework will help you develop a responsive websites
faster than ever before.

Groundwork CSS 2 – A 100% free and open source framework for developing
responsive HTML5, CSS, and javascript framework. You can even add Groundwork to
your rails project easily.

Layers – Build your look on the web and build it fluid with this lightweight
and unobtrusive CSS framework. It comes with a small footprint and nothing
extra.

Skel JS – A Powerful breakpoint management with a sophisticated CSS grid system
with cross platform support and much more. Plugin the Layers or Baseline for
building stuff like off-canvas navigation, toolbars, modals, and more.

Gumby 2 – Is built with the power of Sass, a powerful CSS preprocessor giving
you new tools to quickly customize and build on top of the Gumby Framework.

Responsive Grid System – Provides a mobile first responsive framework with 12,
16, and 24 column grid system, clear fix, optional gutters, and box-sizing
polyfill in a 1kb compressed size.

Foundation – Brings to you the most responsive front-end framework ever.
Foundation is fast for users, fast to code, and easy to learn.

Bootstrap – Is one of the most popular HTML, CSS, and JS framework for
developing responsive, mobile first projects. It easily and efficiently scales
your website and application with a single code base.

Design


Similar posts

Featured


Increase your website traffic to 50% more by following these simple design
trends

Want to increase your website traffic? Read on to know the strategies to
increase your website traffic by 50% in 2019!

Nishtha Aug 4, 2017
Design


Web Design Best Practices – 10 Stunning Examples

Is your website engaging enough for visitors? Keep your page looking fresh by
following these best website design practices for your website in 2022.

Nishtha Sep 10, 2017
Technology


Top Web Building Tools and Platforms

Looking for user-friendly website building platforms that help you manage your
website? Here’s the list of top website building tools & platforms for...

Nishtha Nov 16, 2017


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.