Featured


Covid-19 Resources and Tools for Online Businesses

Coronavirus has spread globally, leaving businesses in the private and public
sectors to struggle for arrangements of resources.

Nishtha
Apr 9, 2020
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 10 minutes

Within a few weeks, a surprising and phenomenal crisis has engulfed the world:
Coronavirus has spread globally, leaving businesses in the private and public
sectors to struggle for arrangements of resources.

Keeping the government orders and ever-growing risk of coronavirus in mind,
almost all the private organizations, educational institutes, schools and many
other businesses are following strict social distancing measures and started
work from home during the coronavirus outbreak.

Today, when the entire country is locked down, they are left with nothing but
adopting work from home to get connected. It’s the best substitute to continue
day-to-day business and other activities in this adverse pandemic phase.

Here, the best way out is to get as much as resources you can to run your
business or any other venture without hassle.

While shifting from office to work from home, you might not have done early
preparations or not accumulated short- or long-term resources to work remotely
with your entire team.

For your reference, we at NMG Technologies have compiled an extensive resource
kit that contains a master list of grants, discounts and freemium offerings
from organizations, helping businesses succeed in this critical time of
Coronavirus outbreak.


Master list of Coronavirus goodwill offers

Advertising Platform and Tool

    • Google
    • Facebook

CRM Platforms

    • Salesforce
    • Zoho

Email Marketing Platform

    • Mailchimp

Collaboration Tools

    • MS teams
    • Google Hangouts Meet
    • Loom
    • Vidyard
    • Slack

E-commerce Platforms

    • Shopify

Mobile Application Development Platform

    • Pubnub

SEO Resources and Tools

    • Moz Academy
    • Yell


Advertising Platform and Tool


Google

Google has committed to providing support of more than $800 million to
facilitate small and medium-sized businesses, health organizations, governments
and other workers to address the challenge of global coronavirus outbreak.

    • Grants for WHO and government agencies: Google is providing grants of
      $250 million to help all the government agencies in the world, including
      the World Health Organization, that are putting untiring efforts for
      providing vital information on the prevention of coronavirus to help the
      regional communities.
    • Google Investment Fund: Google has also extended the supportive hand of
      $200 million as an investment fund for financial institutions and NGOs
      all around the world.
    • Google Ad Credits for SMBs: Google has also assured to provide ads
      credits of $340 million in Google Advert tool to all the small and medium
      businesses that are having active accounts for more than a year during
      this coronavirus pandemic.
    • Google Credits for Education: The organization has also proclaimed to
      confer $20 million Google cloud credits to the researchers and academic
      institutions engrossed in Covid19 research.

Google Adwords


Facebook

Facebook is providing $100M in cash grants and ad credits in Facebook ads
manager to 30,000 small businesses in the countries where Facebook is currently
in use. This includes all the businesses with 2-50 employees, operating for
more than a year.

Facebook also announced $1 Million grants to support the US and Canadian local
news organizations that are vastly covering the news on Coronavirus pandemic.

In addition, it has been stated that the company will provide $5000 grants to
the newsrooms located in the US and Canada to provide them relief from the
unexpected cost-rise due to Novel Coronavirus.

Facebook Ads


CRM Platforms


Salesforce

Salesforce Essentials is a CRM platform that helps combine services and sales
in a single application.

Being one of the biggest Customer Relationship Management platforms, Salesforce
is offering a free Salesforce Essentials package for 90 days to help businesses
sell faster and smarter during the crisis.

Salesforce is also providing free health cloud service access to
care-management groups, call centres and response teams. The step has been
initiated to improve health systems so that they can help those who are
affected due to Coronavirus crisis.

Salesforce for Small Business


Zoho

When the world is fighting with dreadful pandemic, Zoho which is a CRM platform
has decided to help small businesses by launching a Small Business Emergency
Subscription Assistance Program.

Zoho is providing free access to 20,000 to Zoho’s small business customers for
3 months. This includes all the existing SMBs.

This is applicable for all Zoho customers with 25 employees or fewer and have
been severely impacted by the coronavirus pandemic.

Zoho Small Business Suscription Assistance Program


Email Marketing Platform


Mailchimp

Mailchimp is a leading email marketing software platform, offering $10 million
in Mailchimp service to many small businesses who need some financial support
in this difficult time.

Mailchimp Covid-19


Collaboration Tools


MS teams

With their commitment to customers during the coronavirus outbreak, Microsoft
has announced free to download Teams for everyone.

If you want to download Teams for your business, you can easily get it from here
. The platform also comes with a freemium option to download Teams for your
personal use.

Microsoft Teams Covid-19


Google Hangouts Meet

In response to the current coronavirus crisis, Google is helping the businesses
and education sectors by rolling out free access to their advanced Hangouts Meet
.

Anyone can now reap the advantage of advanced Google Hangouts with the
video-conferencing facility that is available for all customers of G Suite
including G Suite for Education.

Google Hangouts Meet Online Video Conferencing G Suite


Loom

Loom is offering a hefty 50% discount on buying Loom Pro. It is now available
for $5/month instead of $10/month.

This video recording and collaboration tool is also offering unlimited
recording with its free plan and has also extended its trails from 14 days to
30 days.

As a bonus, Loom Pro is providing its free access to all the students and
teachers at universities, K-12 Schools and other educational institutes to help
them proceed with their study-oriented activities.

Loom Covid-19


Vidyard

Vidyard, a well known online video platform for business is now offering free
video tools to all the businesses facing unprecedented challenges during the
ongoing coronavirus outbreak.

Vidyrad is also providing a free Vidyard for Internal Communications until June
30, 2020 to help businesses connect with their customers and colleagues at a
time when it matters more than ever during this coronavirus crisis.

Vidyard Covid-19


Slack

Slack is providing its support to all the researchers, nonprofits organizations
and communities and other organizations carrying out critical relief efforts
during this coronavirus outbreak.

Slack is offering a free access to a Slack paid plan to all these organizations
for three months.

Slack Covid-19


E-commerce Platforms


Shopify

Shopify, one of the prominent eCommerce platforms and has also come out as a
helping hand in this period of sudden crisis. The community has decided to
provide a 90-day free trial to all new customers. This also includes all those
customers who are currently availing a 14 days trial plan.

In addition to this, Shopify is also funding $200 million for small businesses
to overcome this critical challenge.

Shopify Covid-19


Mobile Application Development Platform


Pubnub

Increased Market Development Funding: $2,500 per Month

Given the impact to small businesses in particular, we are increasing the
amount of market development funding that is being made available to partners.
For the next three months, PubNub will offer up to $2,500 per month in PubNub
Platform technology credit that can be applied to client projects (maximum $500
per client in accordance with PubNub Accelerator Program). Please contact
hello@nmgtechnologies.com to learn more and/or request credits.


SEO Resources and Tools


Moz Academy

Moz Academy which is a part of Moz – a premium SEO tool, is offering free
access to the courses available at Moz Academy to help businesses sustain
during the COVID-19 outbreak.

The offer is valid on all courses except SEO Essentials Certification.

Moz Covid-19


Yell

Yell, a digital marketing platform also announced its support by offering a
free “Yell for Business” application which enables businesses to manage and
update free business listings on Yell.com.

Yell Covid-19


Grab What Suits Your Business!

The list is accumulated to help you and your business outlast and come out as a
winner when the coronavirus crisis ends. I hope you got your helping hand here
that can help you sustain and recover from the loss caused by Coronavirus
lockdown.

We will be tracking more software, tools and helpful resources that are
providing their support to the businesses that need help in this emergency.

Share your feedback, your valuable suggestions are welcome.

Request Free Pricing
Featured


Similar posts

Growth


Why is WordPress the perfect solution for your small business?

WordPress offers perfect solutions for all business types and sizes. A complete
guide to why you should use WordPress to run your small business...

Aniket Singh Feb 24, 2017
Web


Top WordPress Themes For Your Business

Are you looking for the best WordPress theme for your business? Here's the list
of top 15 WordPress theme for your business in 2019.

Nishtha Sep 16, 2017
Search Engine Optimization


Why does enterprise mobility solutions become so popular?

Enterprise Mobility has changed the way organizations use to work with their
employees. It provides your organization with a set of useful...

Nishtha Feb 3, 2021


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.