Web


Custom Web Applications

A dynamic change in market state, progression in technology or change in
preference, all of these can potentially render your application to sink or
swim.

Nishtha
Aug 26, 2011
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 1 minute

A dynamic change in market state, progression in technology or change in
preference, all of these can potentially render your application to sink or
swim. Sometimes, changes in online environment may demand new application that
can streamline business processes. At New Media Guru (NMG), we help our patrons
to migrate existing application to new technologies and platforms. We offer
custom web application development services for projects knowing that each
business has its own unique requirements and needs ideal solutions too.

Having expertise in escalating business system efficiency, migration, porting,
reengineering, audit and testing, we give unparalleled application services
projects of diverse sizes and/or intricacies. With our exceptional support, new
services can be ruled out effectively, besides a potential reduction in
miscellaneous costs associated with the creation of new applications.

Knowledge and innovation continue to be the great driving forces for online
business. And we understand this ‘core’ need of the ever-changing market. While
the New Media Guru (NMG) team’s strong understanding of the website application
development helps to devise extensive ways for application development with an
eye for details.

We bring to you expertise & experience in developing premium Web applications
to meet your industry requirements. For effective project management of website
application development, our web application development methodology covers the
following steps:

    • Project Analysis
    • Project Planning
    • Project Execution
    • Project Management
    • Developing Application
    • Project Life Duration
    • Change Control
    • Software Engineering
    • Testing Application

We, at New Media Guru (NMG) are not just a team of experts, but we are a team
that is passionate about devising new web applications, which makes us your
best partner.

Web


Similar posts

Web


PHP and Open Source

NEW MEDIA GURU (NMG) has a dedicated Open Source competency center (OSCC) .
Open source is the platform of choice for digital agencies around the...

Nishtha Aug 26, 2011
Search Engine Optimization


Why does enterprise mobility solutions become so popular?

Enterprise Mobility has changed the way organizations use to work with their
employees. It provides your organization with a set of useful...

Nishtha Feb 3, 2021
Events


NMG to Participate in the Largest Tech Expo in the Middle East - GITEX Global
2022, Dubai

GITEX Global 2022 is all set to take place in Dubai with its huge showcase of
enterprise solutions between 10-14 October 2022. Learn about the latest

Nishtha Sep 15, 2022


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.