Marketing


The top 5 CTAs you must have on your website

CTAs are essential to a website's success If you decide to recreate these CTAs
on your site. Here are 7 great call-to-action examples to inspire you!

Nishtha
Jul 4, 2016
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 0 minutes

CTAs are essential to a website’s success, as they carefully guide users to
reach their destination page and let the site owner capture user data, behavior
or run a purchase.

In an ideal world, your website looks more than pretty and offers a boatload of
useful information that should inspire every visitor to go ahead and click on
all call-to-action (CTA) buttons placed on your site.

However, in reality, your CTA’s are not actually converting.

In this article, we provide you the best CTA’s which can immediately show
conversions.

There is no standard template for CTAs to use, But there is a process which you
can follow. Put your thinking cap on and start applying the following ideas to
your niche.

Creating an effective call-to-action isn’t quite simple. Every website will
have some type of audiences which will include visitors and potential customers
etc.

If you convert your visitors to leads, you need to strategically design and
place your CTAs throughout your website.

The ideal solution to this would be to try and create multiple types of CTAs to
cater to a variety of audiences to get them to become your customers.

It is advisable that you don’t design umpteen numbers of CTAs; you will simply
waste time and energy on them.

Practically, there are a few CTAs that are actually useful and generate clicks
and those are the ones that you need to place on your website.

  Digital Marketing 101: The Guide You Were Waiting for!

Read below to learn more about the type of call to actions you need to start
using to get leads.

#1 Welcome Page

This is the top banner section of your homepage. It needs to say it – what do
you offer, what will the user benefit and what is the next step.

For example, let’s say if you holding a webinar. Add a brief description of
your webinar here.

Keep it short and emphasize the main benefit or benefits your webinar attendees
will get from taking part. In your description, leave one or several “curiosity
gaps”, so that readers will want to know more…

#2 Lead Magnets

Lead generation is the prime reason that you have CTAs on your website.

When you are trying to convert visitors into leads and conversions, these CTAs
will be your virtual advocates on the site that will lead your visitor further
in.

Hence, it is advisable to place the CTAs at probable locations on your website
that has frequent and higher percentage of new visitors.

Usually, the most popular locations of CTAs are blog pages, where the placement
is done normally at the end of the post or even at the right side or sometimes
as a floating banner across the web page.

In order to be successful, the CTAs need to be catchy, attract attention and
effectively communicate the value it is claiming to provide.

The visitors must know what to expect when they click the CTA and land to the
page it points to.

Example:

Ebook Download

  Increase your website traffic by 50% – Follow these simple steps!


Get Started

Download Page

#3 Email Subscription

Once your visitors have landed to your website, what is the best way to have
them glued to your space or next best option, stay connected and become a
prospective lead?

Once your visitors have landed to your website, what is the best way to have
them glued to your space or next best option, stay connected and become a
prospective lead?

The visitor here needs to do a couple of things before they can be called a
‘lead’; fill up a form with their details and submit the filled in information
by clicking on the button called ‘submit’.

#4 Instant Access

As a business, you wouldn’t want your potential leads to leaving because of a
boring CTA that asks them to give out their information. Rather, you need to
have something specific to offer your visitors in return for which they give
out their details.

Rather, you need to have something specific to offer your visitors in return
for which they give out their details.

Example: The below given CTA asking for information in return for something
useful can work better than simply putting up a ‘submit’ button.

#5 Sales Page/Landing Page

These are the most important pages for lead generation. You create these pages
just for these purposes. The call to action on these pages has to be actionable.

The information shown on these pages needs to be focused on the topic and so
the CTA.

See the example image below

This landing page explains the benefits before asking your user to access the
Ebook.

Words like Free, instant access are most effective.

#6 Confirmation Page

This is one of the most ignored pages for a call to actions. But if you think
twice, it’s a great page to keep your user engaged and tell them the next steps.

Add a good next step message here and you are done. Your users are ready to
become your lead.

#7 Thank You Page

A thank you, page combined with a lead magnet is a great place to engage the
user.

This page is noise free. No other information but just a thank you for
completing a step. Combine it with a lead magnet and you can see your numbers
rise.

Every business needs the right call to action to convert. Apply the tricks
above and you can see the number rising.

Be it traffic or leads or registrations or downloads, you can sure work on the
right tone with the above ideas.

Request Free Pricing


Frequently Asked Questions


1. What is Call to Action in website?

A call to action is like a prompt or direction on the website that tells or
directs the users to take an action to proceed with something they are looking
for. It’s a command or action button that generally asks users to act by
clicking on the (Sign Up or Buy Now) message.


2. What makes a good call to action?

A good call to action should be created to grab users attraction. Also, it
should deliver a clear message to the users so that they can understand and
take immediate action on that page.


3. What is the best call to action button?

Keeping today’s competitive era in mind, the best call to actions are Sign Up,
E-Book Download, Email Subscription, Get Instant Access, CTA on Landing Page,
Confirmation Page or Process, Thank You CTA (Thank You For Signing Up).


4. How do you use call to action in a sentence?

First of all, you need to keep the CTA sentence quite clear, attractive and
concise. Next, you can use the words that evoke emotion and enthusiasm in
users. It should also tell users why they click on such button. For reaping
more advantages, it’s better to design the CTAs keeping your audience and most
used devices in mind.


5. Why is Call to Action Important?

It's crucial as it directs users to proceed with their search and lets them
know the right path to get the relevant information. Generally, a web page
contains a single CTA but sometimes, there can be multiple call to actions to
keep the users intact with that main page. Here, keeping the page relevant CTAs
would be beneficial.


6. What color should call to action buttons be?

You can use any bright color to design your page CTAs but if you choose Red,
you’ll get maximum clicks and responses as it is the color that attracts users’
within seconds.


7. Does a call to action has to be a button?

A call to action is a command line prompt that attracts users and compels them
to click on the action driven message. To make your CTA intention clear and
concise, keeping the written message in a defined box is always considered a
great idea.

Marketing


Similar posts

Featured


Grow your Website Conversions by 39% in 2020 – Follow these 10 Design
Optimization Steps

Your website conversions are less than 1%. Do you know why? This article will
give you 10 easy ways for your website conversion rate optimization.

Nishtha Feb 3, 2020
Web


12 Must Have Pages On Your Ecommerce Site

Getting an e-commerce website developed? Take your e-commerce website to a new
level with these 12 must have pages on your ecommerce website.

Nishtha Dec 22, 2016
Featured


ADA Compliance Checklist – Is Your Website Compatible?

If you want to find out how to make your website ADA-compliant. Here's the
complete guide to ADA Compliance Checklist for Websites & why ADA...

Nishtha Nov 14, 2017


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.