Events


SEMPO Hangouts Session- Web Design and User Experience

Designing a great website user experience requires understanding the problems.
Go through SEMPO Hangouts Session to know about the UX Design best practices.

Nishtha
Jul 10, 2016
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 0 minutes

UX is an essential field to digital product development but is still mysterious
to many due to its continually evolving definition. Businesses needing greater
customer engagement and traffic on their website are often looking for content
suggestions and best practices to help in their site growth.

UX is an essential field to digital product development but is still mysterious
to many due to its continually evolving definition.

Businesses needing greater customer engagement and traffic on their website are
often looking for content suggestions and best practices to help in their site
growth.

We can help you decode the mystery behind a great UX with this SEMPO session.

 Learn More About  User Experience Strategy & Design

What is SEMPO?

SEMPO (Search Engine Marketing Professionals Organization), a global non-profit
organization that works on serving the industry of search and digital marketing
initiatives.

It conducts productive sessions to discuss relevant industry topics and
suitably recognize industry experts while laying out a platform for them to
network across peers.

SEMPO provides a foundation for industry growth by building stronger
relationships, fostering awareness, promoting the industry, generating
research, and creating a better understanding of search and its role in
marketing.

On November 20th, 2015; an informative hangout session was presented by SEMPO’s
education committee on the relevance and latest trends pertaining to web design
and user experience.

The speakers included three prominent names from the global industry – Todd
Chambers – VP of Group Creative Director, BKV; Mohit Maheshwari – CEO, New
Media Guru India Pvt. Ltd. and Mike ZeMans, owner of Z Strategic.

      What is the one tool you can’t do without? Basecamp-@BKVadvertising
      Envision App- @NEW_MEDIA_GURU Google Analytics/Moz @michaelzemans #SEMPO

      — SEMPO (@sempoglobal) November 20, 2015

      “analytics should drive your decisions making and asset allocation”
      @NEW_MEDIA_GURU #SEMPOChat

      — SEMPO (@sempoglobal) November 20, 2015

      “videos; mobile optimized, transcripts on the page, indexed,
      descriptions, tags improve SEO value” @NEW_MEDIA_GURU #SEMPOChat

      — SEMPO (@sempoglobal) November 20, 2015

      “Google Analytics is a great tool…data analytics are underutilized in the
      industry” @mohitinhere @NEW_MEDIA_GURU #SEMPOChat

      — SEMPO (@sempoglobal) November 20, 2015

      “emphasis on analytics for mobile traffic, heat maps, forming content
      based on this information” @mohitinhere #SEMPOChat

      — SEMPO (@sempoglobal) November 20, 2015

Additionally, the SEMPO Cities initiative was announced in April last year that
called for leader nominations wherein 20 city leaders were nominated among
which Mohit Maheshwari – CEO New Media Guru India Pvt. Ltd. was nominated for
the SEMPO Cities Leader for the year 2015 among notable global counterparts.

Below are 15 actionable points from the session that can help you understand UX
like a Pro.

#1 UX not just captures user’s eye and help them navigate but also helps in
search engine rankings.

#2 UX is all about showcasing great content in minimal designs spaces.

#3 Visual design is how a product looks, whereas UX design is, essentially, how
it feels.

#4 Top UX goal is to help users find what they are looking for quickly and
easily.

#5 Think about how your audience will behave. How they look up for information
is the most important factor in creating the perfect user experience.

It always pays to know your user. Ask these questions to yourself.

    • What are the needs of your users?
    • How does your audience approach workflow?
    • What does your user look for while browsing online?

#6 Some of the most important points to consider while redesigning your website
and core business offering are:

    • Perform a website audit
    • Pay attention to bad components
    • Pay attention to usability and design
    • Pay attention to information architecture, the technology used and how
      all these are used in creating an optimal user experience.
    • Emphasize on data analytics and data, studying results and user focus and
      designing the website accordingly.

 Which one does your business need? Good design or Great Design

#7 Observe and record customer behavior on your website by interviews,
interactive and real-time surveys and engaging with them.

#8 Tools like Kissmetrics, Google Analytics, Crazy Egg, Lucky Orange,
Usertesting.com etc. can help in giving out valuable data and insights for
improvising site usage.

#9 Make use of the right keywords and content to appeal to all kinds of users.

#10 Capture data pertaining to customers, their online behavior, their online
habits, websites they click, keywords that they look up.

#11 Incorporating videos on site intelligently can enhance site rankings and
usage as they convey brand ethos.

Videos can be a good tool for capturing the attention of the target audience.

In order to get videos crawled by search engines, it is important to make them
SEO compliant.

Using the right tags, putting the right descriptions, getting analytics done,
embedding the video links and indexing them on Google are hugely important.

#12 Subtle mistakes in site navigation can have a big impact on your traffic
and ultimately sales.

#13 A cluttered website can be a big turnoff for visitors. Measure site
analytics and collect data on all pages of a website to be in sync with the
central site theme.

#14 InVision, Basecamp and Google Analytics are some of the most useful tools
for web design and having an optimal user experience.

#15 When a user has a great experience they are more likely to buy or return to
a product as well as recommend it to their friends.

Discover  Web Design Best Practices – 10 Stunning Examples

When a user buys the product, returns to the site, or recommend it to their
friends the traffic and conversion rate for that site are both increased.

This session highlighted some of the most pertinent issues regarding web design
and user experience and the ensuing discussion among the speakers gave huge
insights on these issues that chiefly concern startups and SMBs.

Watch the Hangouts Session
Events


Similar posts

Design


Vital Principles for Quality Web Design

If you're working on a design for your website, make sure you follow or
consider these vital principles of web design to secure the first impressions.

Nishtha Nov 30, 2012
Design


5 Mistakes you can avoid while collecting Design Feedback

There’s always a feedback stage in the web design process with clients. Here
are the 5 mistakes to avoid when collecting & giving feedback on design...

Nishtha Aug 25, 2017
Design


Good design or Great Design – Which one does your business need?

Ready to make sure your Web design is looking its best? Read on to know about
the best Practices for web designing.

Nishtha Mar 26, 2015


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.