Skip to content

Search


Tablet App Development

"Expert Tablet App Development & Design Services For Building Intuitive Apps
With User-Centric Design"

    • SERVICES
    • Mobile Application Development
    • Tablet App Development
Services


Create Robust Apps with our Tablet App Development Company.

At NMG Technologies, we create visually stunning tablet-based custom
experiences, both native and HTML5-based, that are feature-packed,
high-performance and scalable for any tablet device. Our dynamic team of
developers delivers flawless tablet design, utilizing cutting-edge technology
and the best industry practices. The tablet apps we develop are innovative,
highly functional and deliver an amazing UX for greater user engagement and
conversions.

Partner with NMG Technologies for unmatched expertise in creating exceptional
tablet app solutions. Get in touch with us and bring your app vision to life.


Tablet Application Development Services We Offer.

Explore our comprehensive suite of tablet application development services,
designed to bring your business ideas to life with precision, innovation and
excellence.



Android Tablet App Development

We offer customized tablet app development services for the Android platform,
creating a robust app architecture that delivers a great UI, high performance
and seamless integration. Our android tablet app development interfaces
incorporate all the core features for optimal functionality.



iOS Tablet App Development

We build high-quality tablet apps, designed specifically for Apple's ecosystem
that incorporate a user-friendly interface. Our inventive developers have
tremendous expertise in creating high-performance, feature-packed iPad
applications that render a great visual experience and have well-organized UI
layers.



Customized Tablet Apps

We develop highly efficient iPad, Android and Windows Tablet apps, tailored
precisely to your business objectives and the industry we are in. The Windows
Surface tablet app development solutions that we deliver function seamlessly
and employ interactive UIs and the latest tools & technologies to increase
efficiency.



Specialized Tablet Apps

We hold expertise in HTML5 and Microsoft tablet app development to build
specialized tablet apps such as Native apps, Hybrid apps, Android UI/UX design,
Custom Android Apps, Android Web-based apps, iPad apps & more and deliver
tailored, industry-specific solutions designed to drive unparalleled business
value.


Tablet App Solutions for Industries.

We design efficient and outcome-focused specialized tablet apps, tailored to
various industry needs.

    • Healthcare
    • Fintech
    • Edtech
    • Travel and Hospitality
    • Real Estate
    • Logistics and Automotive
We develop secure and compliant tablet applications, designed to enhance
patient care and streamline management processes to ensure better outcomes and
improved efficiency for healthcare providers and patients alike.

We create innovative and robust tablet app solutions that transform financial
services and transactions by delivering enhanced efficiency, security and
better accessibility for businesses and consumers.

Our innovative Edtech tablet apps transform the way students learn by building
interactive and engaging e-learning avenues.

Our tablet app solutions for Edtech empower students with personalized learning
and make education more accessible, enjoyable and effective for all.

Our tablet application for the travel industry employs robust development and
an inviting design.

With a user-friendly UI and appealing UX, our solutions offer seamless booking
and personalized customer service to ensure a memorable and hassle-free journey
from start to finish.
NMG Technologies offers state-of-the-art tablet app solutions to simplify real
estate operations.
Our robust apps include features for property listing management, client
communication, property maintenance tracking, tenant screening and rental
payment processing.
Our apps streamline fleet management, logistics tracking, vehicle maintenance,
driver management, dispatch services and insurance claims handling, resulting
in improved operational efficiency and customer satisfaction.
TECH


Our Core Technologies for Tablet App Development.

We utilize cutting-edge technologies in our tablet app development, ensuring
your applications are efficient, scalable, and innovative.

    • Programming Languages
    • Frameworks
    • Databases
    • Tools
    • Android SDK
      In our development process, the Android Software Development Kit provides
      the essential tools & APIs to build, test, and debug Android apps.
    • Kotlin
      Kotlin is our preferred language for tablet app development due to its
      concise syntax, null safety, and interoperability with Java.
    • Java
      Java gives a strong foundation for tablet app development, especially for
      legacy projects.
    • Swift
      Known for its safety, performance and concise syntax, you can write
      reliable and efficient code for cross-platform tablet apps using Swift.
    • React Native
      An open-source framework that uses a single codebase for iOS and Android
      and supports hot-reloading and live-reloading.
    • Flutter
      A free and open framework that helps build native-like Android and iOS
      mobile apps with a layered architecture.
    • Ionic
      A well-known framework for building hybrid apps and web applications that
      use HTML5. It's ideal for developing applications for Android, Windows,
      and iOS.
    • Xamarin
      A popular choice for developers looking for a cost-effective and
      efficient solution that leverages the .NET framework.
    • Firebase
      A Google-backed platform that helps developers build, run and scale apps
      for mobile and web.
    • SQLite
      A lightweight disk-based database that allows accessing the database
      using a nonstandard variant of the SQL query language.
    • Realm
      A service provided by MongoDB, used to store data in users' devices
      locally that allows for seamless integration and fast database operations
      in mobile apps.
    • Android Studio
      It provides app builders with an integrated development environment (IDE)
      optimized for Android apps.
    • Xcode
      We use Xcode, an IDE (integrated development environment) that's included
      in the iOS software development kit (SDK), to build iOS apps.
    • Git
      A free, open-source version control system that can be used for tablet
      app development.
    • Jenkins
      An open-source tool that automates software building, testing, and
      deployment tasks.


Hire Our Top-Class Tablet App Developers.

When you choose NMG Technologies for tablet app development, you're partnering
with a team of in-house, front-end experts, skilled coders, business analysts,
UX/UI specialists & designers, dedicated to delivering exceptional results. We
have a proven record of developing innovative tablet app solutions for
enterprise-level clients. Let's collaborate to transform your vision into
reality with our industry-leading tablet app development services. Choose NMG
Technologies for our expertise and user-centered, performance-oriented approach.

Book an Appointment


Why Choose Our Tablet Application Development Services ?

With a large team of in-house certified app developers, designers, usability
architects, QA testers and dedicated project managers, NMG Technologies offers
custom tablet app development, designed for unmatched performance, innovation
and efficiency. We build high-performing, result-driven tablet apps with faster
load times and swift UIs that help your business gain engagement and
conversions.

If you are looking for top-notch tablet app design and development talent, then
NMG Technologies is the tablet app development agency you need. Book a
consultation with our solutions team and get a free quote today.

Our Development Process


Our Tablet App Development Process.

Our streamlined tablet app development process ensures efficiency, quality and
innovation from concept to delivery.

    • 01
      Requirement Analysis
      We carefully analyze your requirements to get an in-depth comprehension
      of your business objectives and create a clear and strategic roadmap for
      your project with a focus on alignment with your vision and goals.
    • 02
      Design and Prototyping
      Our talented designers create intuitive prototypes that blend visual
      appeal with user-friendliness. Each design aligns seamlessly with your
      vision and business objectives, ensuring a captivating and impactful user
      experience.
    • 03
      Development
      Our expert developers employ the latest technologies to craft powerful,
      high-performance applications. They consistently follow the best
      practices and industry standards to deliver exceptional quality and
      innovation in every tablet app project.
    • 04
      Testing and Quality Assurance
      Our rigorous testing and quality assurance processes ensure your app is
      reliable, secure, and bug-free, delivering an exceptional user experience
      that gets greater engagement & conversions.
    • 05
      Deployment
      We expertly manage the seamless deployment of your tablet app across all
      relevant platforms, be it the Apple store or Google store, ensuring a
      smooth and hassle-free transition from development to launch.
    • 06
      Support and Maintenance
      Our dedicated support and maintenance services guarantee your app stays
      updated, secure and efficient. We provide continuous performance boosts
      and upgrades based on user feedback, ensuring your app always operates at
      its best.
client speak


Your Journey, Our Expertise:
Results-Driven Successful Partnerships

"NMG is my sigh of relief. Finding an SEO agency, you can trust to create
data-driven, Advanced SEO and Content Marketing strategies while staying
focused on your unique business and achieving the desired results is rare. The
personal attention they give to our projects and their ownership over the
results help us fulfill our mission to enable every person on Earth to travel
freely."
Mohak Nahta
CEO and Founder, Atlys Inc
“If you are looking for a company that truly cares about your business and your
success, look no further than NMG. Their team is knowledgeable, trustworthy,
and committed to delivering results that exceed expectations.”
Mihir Trivedi
Head of Marketing
“NMG Technologies provided a detailed specification document and appropriate
software solutions from the outset, delivering results very close to the
original proposal. The team was available to discuss issues, replied promptly
to emails, and provided constant updates.”

Sai Karan Vedulla
London & Partners,
VP & Chief Representative

"What set NMG apart from other companies was their experience in managing
complex programs and their strategic insights in the B2B segment. They did an
excellent job throughout the whole project and provided a level of assurance
and comfort in their abilities that others could not match"

Steve Delvecchia
VP Digital Engagement,
Resources Connection Inc.
(NASDAQ Listed)

Our Awards


Recognitions & Awards.

Our Process


Our Blogs.

We guide you from concept to launch of your successful Magento online store.
Our iterative Magento development process focuses on collaboration and
flexibility.


Never Miss a Goal with Koora Break!

Developed by NMG Technologies, Experience Football Like Never Before with Saudi
Arabia's Award-Winning Soccer App.

February 23, 2024

Read More


NMG Technologies to Participate in Mobile Word Capital Barcelona – the world’s
largest and most influential connectivity event

NMG Technologies to Participate in Mobile Word Capital Barcelona – the world’s
largest and most influential connectivity event

February 16, 2024

Read More


NMG Technologies Participated in Softwave 2023, The Republic of Korea Software
Exhibition

NMG Technologies Participated in Softwave 2023, The Republic of Korea Software
Exhibition

November 29, 2023

Read More
Support


FAQ’s.


What is the difference between mobile apps and tablet apps?

Tablet apps are designed for larger screens and typically provide more advanced
functionalities than mobile apps.


How long does it take to create an app for a tablet?

The timeline varies based on the complexity and scope of work but generally,
the time taken to build tablet app can range from a few weeks to several months.


Can you use Android Studio on a tablet?

Yes, you can use Android Studio on tablets but it generally performs more
efficiently on a desktop or laptop.


Does our tablet application offer a payment option?

Yes, our tablet applications can seamlessly integrate a variety of payment
gateways for smooth transactions.


What amount does the tablet app development cost?

Costs depend on the complexity of the app and the scope of work. Tell us your
specific requirements and we will send you a free quote.


Which is the best platform for tablet app development?

The ideal platform for you is the one most utilized by your target audience.
Both Android and iOS are popular and effective choices to engage specific
target markets.