Skip to content

Search


Create App - Detailed Guide to App UI Design for Mobile App Developers

Complete mobile application development guide to help you design and develop
the best-in-class Android and iOS apps

1. Today most of the time is spent consuming digital media on mobile apps.
2. Users spend about 90 percent of their time using applications on mobile
devices.
3. Around 85 percent of users prefer native mobile apps on mobile.
4. About 42 percent of mobile sales of Fortune 500 organizations are done
through mobile apps.

Table of Content

Chapter 8


CHAPTER 9


Conclusion

This article covered almost all the essential topics of mobile application
development. First, you got to know how Android and iOS applications are made
and how they work. Then, let’s quickly recall the significant points that you
need to keep in mind while developing a mobile app for your business.

Application Testing: This article explained how mobile application testing is
done and why it is essential for businesses to test their applications. You
understood how mobile apps are designed, and it is clear that creating a mobile
app depends on which operating system you are developing a mobile app.

Important Development Scenarios: You got to know that the cost of an
application depends on various scenarios like target market, target audience,
type of app, and many more. The article also explained cross-platform
application development. You got to know how cross-platform applications are
made and the best cross-platform tools. Also, this part covered the advantages
of cross-platform development.

Cost of Mobile Development: The cost of a simple android app can vary between
$12500-$27000 and $32000-$48000 for complex applications. On the other side
total Setup cost for a large android app development can go beyond $52000.

A typical iOS application can cost up to $25000- $ 100,000 depending on the
app's features, complexity, and interface. So you have to find out what you
want and what you don't so that you don't realize the amount you would probably
spend on your application.

App Testing Checklist: article described the importance of mobile testing. This
article included mobile application testing checklist and mobile application
testing tools. We also got to know the role of a mobile application developer,
how Android and iOS mobile application developer works and how organizations
hire them.

Hiring Mobile Developers: Here, we also covered the hiring process for both the
operating systems (Android and iOS). This included the requirements and skills
required for iOS and Android developers.

That’s all from our guide to Mobile Development. It's time to hear from you now.

    • Let’s tell us what all tips you liked from this guide.
    • Are you thinking of developing an Android app or iOS if you have enough
      budget or want to go for both?
    • Or you might be thinking of implementing a mobile testing strategy?

We are waiting for your valuable comments and opinions. Do let us know how much
you liked this detailed tutorial.