Skip to content

Search


How Sforzo Dillingham achieved a 98% increase in phone calls and a
400% increase in Organic Traffic

Sforzo Dillingham, a leading orthopedic treatment service provider, struggled
with improving their online visibility and search engine rankings. They wanted
to expand their client base, increase website traffic, build brand authority,
and drive revenue growth through a comprehensive SEO and content marketing
strategy. They partnered with NMG to enhance their online visibility and
establish a dominant digital presence to achieve their goals.

Sforzo Dillingham seeks to position itself as a top choice for orthopedic
therapy services by leveraging NMG's expertise to develop and implement
effective digital marketing campaigns that will attract and retain clients.
Therefore, NMG employed a successful on-site SEO, content creation, and
link-building strategy for Sforzo Dillingham that resulted in a 400% increase
in organic traffic and a 98% increase in phone calls.

Back


SYNOPSIS


400% Increase in Organic traffic

NMG utilized Advanced SEO audit and competitors ' research to develop
data-driven SEO and Content Marketing Strategies to achieve the desired
results. The Technical SEO audit and Competitors’ research helped pinpoint all
the issues and gaps on the website. We create d SEO-optimized content for new
and existing website pages, focusing on creating unique content campaigns to
improve the website ’ s rankings and generate leads .

To rectify all the technical issues on the website and its SEO and content
strategy, we utilized advanced SEO processes, such as Master Keyword Research,
Low Hanging Fruit, SEO On-page, and Link Building. Furthermore, to create
SEO-optimized content for the website, we created content briefs based on the
researched data we got after conducting our advanced SEO processes. This led to
a significant increase in website traffic, search engine rankings, phone calls,
and footfall in the clinic.


RESULTS


400%
Increase in Organic Traffic


1,50,000 +
Impressions Gained


150 +
Keywords in Top 10


300+
Keywords in Top 20


98%
Increase in Phone Call


CAMPAIGN RESULTS


ENGAGEMENT HIGHLIGHTS

Employing our expertise in Advanced SEO techniques, we conducted comprehensive
keyword research and devised a highly effective content marketing and
link-building strategy for Sforzo Dillingham. Our approach focused on creating
SEO-optimized content for new and existing website pages, complemented by
link-building to drive relevant and authoritative links to their domain.

Our efforts yielded remarkable results, increasing their organic traffic by
400%. In addition, u sing a data-driven approach to create
content based on our well-researched content briefs , we significantly improved
the website's search engine rankings and
online visibility , which led to more footfall in the clinic .


After conducting advanced competitor research and a technical website audit ,
we developed unique SEO and Content Campaigns to improve the website's rankings
and increase clinic appointments . NMG created data-driven content brief s for
existing and new website pages to increase website traffic and ranking. Our
content briefs include all the required keywords, SEO writing guidelines, and
sub-topics that must be added to the content to make it rank - worthy . We
created content strictly optimized for the targeted audience that earned
150,000 impressions and increased organic traffic by 400%.


Factual, comprehensive, and fully sour c ed content was developed for Sforzo
Dillingham to meet the high standards for health - related “Your Money or Your
Life” (YMYL) search queries , for which Google stipulates substantially higher
standard s for quality. Orthopedic treatment service providers’ websites fall
under the category of hea l th information . These websites are subject to
higher standards of expertise , authoritativeness, and trustworthiness to rank
well in search results. Therefore, NMG created well-researched content briefs
and factually correct content for Sforzo Dillingham to adhere to YMYL standards
and rank higher .


Significant “E-A-T” (Expertise, Authoritativeness, and Trust) improvements were
made to the website by adding information about the doctors and the contributor
credentials. We also added a comprehensive “ About Us ” page with a clearly
stated mission and details about the company.


SEO STRATEGY

When Sforzo Dillingham approached u s, we conducted a technical SEO audit,
which revealed critical issues with their website's structure, search engine
optimization , and content strategy . For example, t he website lacked
SEO-optimized meta descriptions and meta tags on website pages. I n addition, i
t did not have a well -laid- out and strategically planned content and
data-driven SEO strategy. In order to create an advanced SEO game plan for
Sforzo , we conducted in - depth competitor research to identify the strategies
that helped them grow their website traffic. As a result, we created Advanced
SEO and C ontent M arketing strategies for the website and took all the
measures to put it on a path toward rapid growth. Along with SEO and content
marketing, we also focused on website maintenance and created new pages to
target and showcase their services .

As a result, S forzo Dillingham witnessed a remarkable improvement in their
online visibility, search engine rankings, and organic traffic . They also
experienced a significant increase in phone calls and footfall in the clinic .  


We began our SEO campaigns with a thorough SEO audit and advanced competitor
research that helped us identify all the issues with the website and current
SEO strategy. We addressed the header, page title, meta description, and image
SEO to optimize on-page elements. Additionally, we meticulously checked over
100+ critical on-page SEO factors using an SEO checklist.


We conducted Master Keyword Research and implemented the Low Hanging Fruit
process to create  content for the website. We also created a structured sitemap
  which help ed us develop and produce  200+ pages   for different Treatment
and Condition pages.   We conducted M aster K eyword R esearch and implemented
the Low H anging F ruit process to create  content for the website. We also
created a structured sitemap   which help ed us develop and produce  2 00+ pages
  for different Treatment and Condition pages.  


We performed a high-level audit comprising 60+ local SEO checkpoints that
helped get the most qualified leads and traffic through local search, both in
the “map pack” and organic results.


ON-SITE SEO

Our on-site SEO process began with a thorough website audit, prioritizing the
most crucial elements to address first. By doing so, we effectively eliminated
potential threats to the website's search engine performance and established a
robust foundation for successful SEO and content marketing campaign s for Sforzo
 Dillingham.

PROBLEM 1 – META TITLES AND META DESCRIPTIONS ARE NOT OPTIMIZED

Before – We observed that the website's Meta Titles were not optimized, and
Meta Descriptions were absent on all pages.

After – After conducting keyword research, we optimized the Meta Titles and
Meta Descriptions, incorporating targeted keywords to improve search engine
performance.

PROBLEM 2 – SCHEMA MARKUP TAGS WERE MISSING

Before – The website audit revealed that it lacked essential schema markup
codes, including those for organization, breadcrumbs, FAQs, etc. This was
negatively impacting the website's search engine visibility.

After – T o improve the website's search engine visibility and user experience,
we incorporated the required schema markup codes. By doing so, the website
gained greater visibility on search engine results pages, as the schema markup
codes supplied search engines with critical details about its content and
layout.

PROBLEM 3 – BREADCRUMB WAS MISSING

Before – Breadcrumb was missing on the website, which affected its visibility
and search rankings . Therefore, w e implemented breadcrumb on the entire site
and implemented breadcrumb schema code.  

After – NMG implemented breadcrumbs across the website while implementing
schema code to enhance the overall technical health of the website.

PROBLEM 4 – LACK OF SEO-BASED CONTENT

Before – Sfrozo Dillingham was not focusing on creating SEO - optimized content
that was restraining their website’s growth. As a result, t heir existing
content lacked the targeted keywords , affecting its performance on Google
SERPs.

After – NMG developed a content strategy for Sforzo Dillingham after conducting
a thorough analysis of its competitors, performing an SEO audit, and conducting
extensive keyword research. Our strategy included data-driven content outlines
for various content types and targeted keywords that resul ted in a 400%
increase in its ranking.


OFF-SITE SEO AND LINK BUILDING

The off-site process, popularly known as linking building , is a much - needed
complement to the on-site activities. Therefore, from the outset,
we dedicated a team of link - building experts

f ocused on link building, industry outreach, and link earning to create a
strong link profile

We have listed Sforzo Dillingham in the Top 100 US Citations, which help to
increase Local SEO ranking and more visit on Google Map.

We have optimized the Google My Business profile and ran the local SEO audit
checklist (100+ Points) and Google My Business Optimization checklist (50+
Points) to increase visibility on Google Map Results.


VERTICAL/INDUSTRY INSIGHTS

To outrank their competition in organic search, the client aimed to build a
strong presence on Google and increase footfall in the clinic.


Orthopedic surgeons likely serve patients within a specific geographic area.
Therefore, optimizing your website for local SEO is crucial to attracting
potential patients. By implementing local SEO strategies, keyword research, and
content marketing, we improved their online visibility and drove more traffic
to their website from local searchers.


Orthopedic treatment service providers must understand and comply with YMYL
(Your Money Your Life) regulations and standards. In addition, orthopedic
treatment service providers must be transparent about their services, provide
accurate information, and ensure their content is up-to-date, reliable, and
free from harmful misinformation.
Therefore, Comprehensive, factual, and fully sourced content was developed for
Sforzo Dillingham to meet the high standards for “Your Money or Your Life”
(YMYL) search queries, for which Google stipulates substantially higher
standards for quality.


Content marketing is a powerful SEO tool that can help orthopedic surgeons
establish themselves as thought leaders. Creating high-quality, informative
content that answers common patient questions and concerns can build trust with
potential patients and drive more traffic to your website.
Instead of only focusing on content marketing strategy for local SEO, we also
focused on creating condition and treatment pages about specific orthopedic
conditions to help the readers understand their causes, symptoms, and
treatments.


Christopher R. Sforzo


Founder


(Sforzo | Dillingham | Stewart Orthopedics)


“NMG is a reliable agency when it comes to SEO and Content Marketing. They
don’t just rely on trendy tactics but also use data and analytics to create
strategies that work. Our business has seen a significant improvement in Local
Search Ranking since partnering with them. The SEO campaign led to increased
appointments via the website and footfalls in the clinic.”

OUR CLIENTS


NMG is used by 300+ businesses and brands

We’re full service which means we’ve got you covered on digital marketing ,
advanced seo , design , development and content right through to growth

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------