Events


Startup India Event 2016 – Key Highlights

Early this year we witnessed a one-of-a-kind event in the startup universe
conducted by the Government of India on 16th January. #StartUpIndia event was
graced by the Prime Minister Mr. Narendra Modi himself. The hashtag sure
created a lot of buzz.

Nishtha
Jun 29, 2016
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 6 minutes

Early this year we witnessed a one-of-a-kind event in the startup universe
conducted by the Government of India on 16th January. #StartUpIndia event was
graced by the Prime Minister Mr. Narendra Modi himself. The hashtag sure
created a lot of buzz.

Early this year we witnessed a one-of-a-kind event in the startup universe
conducted by the Government of India on 16th January.

#StartUpIndia event was graced by the Prime Minister Mr. Narendra Modi himself.
The hashtag sure created a lot of buzz.

This event was primarily directed at revealing the StartUp Plan of 2016 that
aimed at easing the challenges faced by Start Ups in our country.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi led the initiation of ‘Startup India’ event which
was fueled by the idea to ease the compliance and regulatory frameworks for
startups in India.

Held at New Delhi’s Vigyaan Bhawan, the event was attended by over 2000 startup
founders, investors and the like.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s inspirational talk

Unveiling the Startup India agenda

For startups and growing businesses, this event was one of the most anticipated
occasions with the Startup community waiting for it with bated breath for one
simple reason – it could prove to be a game-changer for emerging startups.

Startup India Event

Union Minister for Finance and Corporate Affairs Arun Jaitley inaugurated this
event where the Minister of State for Commerce and Industry, Nirmala Sitharaman
was the Guest of Honor.

The event was a global level workshop celebrating the spirit of entrepreneurship

Top Takeaways:

    • Unleashing Entrepreneurship and Innovation: What do Indian Startups Need
      to Grow and Prosper
    • Celebrating Women: Stories of Innovative Women Entrepreneurs
    • How digitization will change India’s future
    • Making Indian Healthcare Leapfrog
    • Financial inclusion is within reach

There was a distinguished panel of speakers present at the event which included
famous national and international investors, bureaucrats and Startup CEOs like
Travis Kalanick – Uber CEO, Snapdeal Founder, Kunal Bahl; YourStory Founder
Shradha Sharma, Vijay Shekhar Sharma of Paytm and OYO Rooms’ Ritesh Agarwal
among many others.

Uber CEO Travis Kalanick

Prime Minister Narendra Modi also unveiled the ‘Startup Action Plan’ that
contained numerous positive initiatives for Indian Start Ups. Prime Minister
also underlined the Startup India objective, which aims at reinforcing a
commitment of the government towards creating an ecosystem that is conducive
for startup growth.

The event was based on the following discussions:

#1 Defining and Recognizing ‘Startups’

Perhaps the biggest change brought about with the Startup India Event taking
place is giving identity and recognition to the word ‘Startup’.

Until now, startups were simply non-existent in governmental policies. They
were clubbed under the term ‘Business’. But now startups have been recognized
as having a definition and identity along with a direction from the Government.

#2 Self-Certification

GOI has initiated efforts to reduce the regulatory compliance burden on
Startups and allow them to focus on developing their core business thereby
keeping costs low and productivity high.

Startups will now be allowed to self-certify compliance with nine labor and
environmental laws. For labor laws, no inspections will be conducted for up to
a period of three years.

#3 Startup India Hub

With setting up of a Startup India Hub the Government has aimed to create a
SPOC (Single Point of Contact) for the entire Startup community in order to
facilitate a useful exchange of knowledge and suitable access to capital.

The startups will work in a hub and spoke model and work in collaboration with
the Central and State governments, Indian and global Venture Capitalists, Angel
networks, legal partners, consultants, R&D institutions etc.

#4 Mobile App and Portal to be Launched

The Government further announced the launch of a mobile app that will help
startups take off their business. The app will feature facilities such as
registration, obtaining clearances, filing compliances, approvals etc.

#5 Funding through Fundsb>

While not investing in Startups directly; the Government will help them through
a fund of funds with a corpus of INR 10,000 Crore.

This fund house will be managed by the board of industry professionals,
academia, and successful startups.

#6 Tax Exemption for 3 Yearsb>

Touted as one of the most positive moves in the plan, the Government will
exempt Startups from income tax given on profits generated for first 3 years.

#7 Startup Festivalsb>

There are plans to organize national and global level startup festivals on an
annual basis to showcase innovation in business and provide a collaboration
platform to budding entrepreneurs.

#8 Student Programs b>

To promote and encourage research and innovation among students, the Government
plans to implement several innovation programs including NIDHI, Innovation
Core, and Uchhattar Avishkar Yojana.

#9 Setting up Research Parksb>

The Government plans to set up 7 new research parks at IISc Bangalore and all
prominent IIT locations like Delhi, Hyderabad, Gandhinagar, Guwahati, Kanpur
and Kharagpur with an initial capital investment of INR 100 Crores each.

These research parks will be modeled over the research part that is set up at
IIT Madras.

#10 Atal Innovation Mission

Government plans to provide a unique platform to Startup for the purpose of
promotion of top notch Innovation Hubs, Grand Challenges, and Startup
Businesses etc. along with other related self-employment activities with a
focus on technology driven areas. This will be achieved through the Atal
Innovation Mission (AIM).

NMG Technologies attended and participated in the event to express solidarity
and support the startup initiative. Being one of the fastest growing IT
Offshore companies in India, our major customer type are the startups.

We are a Digital Partner for NASSCOM.

We have worked on numerous projects with the. A few of them include the
following:

    • http://www.nasscom.in/hrsummit/
    • http://www.nasscom.in/bigdata
    • http://newmediaguru.co/html/nasscom-gic2016/
    • http://www.nasscom.in/engineeringsummit
    • http://productconclave.in/

The Government’s initiative for the Startup community and coming up with an
action plan was widely lauded by budding entrepreneurs and their likes. ‘
Startup India’ is the first step towards a long journey that Indian Startup
Community needs to take to fully realize its potential in the business world.

To read more:


http://gadgets.ndtv.com/internet/features/startup-india-standup-india-event-everything-you-need-to-know-790263


http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/small-biz/startups/will-startup-india-stem-the-exodus-of-startups-to-singapore/articleshow/50620860.cms

Events


Similar posts

Featured


NEW MEDIA GURU’s Webinar & Workshop on “Digital Marketing Strategies for SMBs &
Startups” – Spreading Knowledge and Making Careers!

Digital marketing strategies for SMBs & Startups - The workshop covered
practical steps for developing and executing Digital Marketing campaigns.

Nishtha Jul 30, 2014
Events


NMG Technologies to Participate in Mobile Word Capital Barcelona – the world’s
largest and most influential connectivity event

NMG Technologies to Participate in Mobile Word Capital Barcelona – the world’s
largest and most influential connectivity event

Nishtha Feb 16, 2024
Events


NMG Technologies – Nigeria Meet

Nigeria is one of the fastest growing economies in the African Continent as
well as on Global charts that enjoy a growth rate of 7% on an average....

Nishtha Jun 15, 2016


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.