Skip to content

Search


Download Content Calendar

Simplify Your Marketing with a Content Calendar

Still wondering “How often should I blog? How many videos do I need? What's my
social media posting schedule?” It’s time to get it all organized in one place
with our content calendar.

No more guessing: Say goodbye to staring at a blank screen. Your content
calendar maps out what to create and when.

Save time: Plan your content once a month instead of scrambling for ideas every
day.

Better results: A consistent, planned approach is far more effective than
"winging it."

Trusted By Businesses


Driving Success for 500+ Businesses

From Fortune 500s to Startups, NMG's services and solutions drive measurable
success for a diverse portfolio of clients. Browse our case studies and witness
the impact of our proven strategies and commitment to client satisfaction.


DC's Wolomi Startup got funded by Google

The wolomi app is an educational and supportive resource for women of color who
are pregnant or new mothers. Wolomi is a community of women of color creating
an empowering journey for modern-day mothers to be navigated the health care
system for better outcomes. Everything is on the same convenient platform.


$4.25 million seed funding round
led by Andreessen Horowitz.

Produced by the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, Getty Unshuttered is a
positive community for teen photographers like you to share your unique view of
the world, grow your skills, and build your portfolios. It’s free to use and
ad-free, too

Platform developed that allows users to keep track of recommendations from
other users in their Vouch Vault or they can share their own. This product
primarily fulfills the common use case of “I need to remember that” every time
a friend says “you’ve got to read this book, see this documentary, download
this song, buy this product, try this restaurant, etc.”

From this platform users can keep a list of things they’d like to try, and if
they end up loving them, move those items in the list of things they Vouch for.


"Equipment repair and bringing cost efficiencies in backend operations. The app
is being used by over 2000+ anytime fitness and procure gyms."

Fixed Fitness platform allows Fitness equipment owner, manager and instructor
to connect with fixed Fitness technician to consult and resolve any issue
related to fitness equipment. Customers can also get parts of their equipment's
changed through the platform. The app provides the fastest way to find out what
is wrong with fitness equipment.

Gluten Dude app is a platform that help people eat gluten free for those who
are suffering from celiac disease. This platform believes that whether people
are travelling, socializing, or just need a quick bit to eat, people living a
gluten free lifestyle should be able to eat safely and comfortably.

This App strive to help people find gluten free friendly business and share
their experiences with other members of gluten free community. This will raise
awareness for celiac disease and other food sensitivities.



It is a medical chat platform where medical workers communicate within their
facility as well as other facilities.

Medical workers will communicate via chat, audio and video call. App has
security features to protect sensitive material sent in the app.

Music licensing and live streaming platform to facilitate music licensing by
independents and small artists. Musicbed is all about enabling artists to do
what they love while providing filmmakers and production studios with an
inspiring selection of music to license for their projects

Client Speak


Trusted by a Diverse Portfolio of 300+ Businesses & Brands

NMG is your long-term full-service strategic partner. We handle everything -
right from UX, design & development to testing, launch & maintenance - so that
you can focus on your business.

“ Their level of understanding of our business model really stood out to us. I
often said that they understand our operation better than our own employees do.
They communicate well in writing and on phone calls. They were very responsive
and able to make adjustments and troubleshoot very quickly.”

Brandon Kent
Vice President of Sales and Marketing,
Telemark Diversfied Graphics

“ We chose to work with NMG after interviewing/vetting ten web development
companies from around the world. NMG won our business because of their deep
understanding of .PHP and web design. The team is highly qualified and
talented. The attention to detail is excellent. Choosing to work with NMG has
been one of the best business decisions our company has made in 10+ years.”

Nate Hart
Vice President
Competiscan

“ NMG provided a level of assurance and comfort in their abilities that others
could not match.By consistently delivering high-quality work, NMG Technologies
contributed to an effective and greatly improved website. I praise their
cutting-edge design strategies, thorough research, and willingness to implement
feedback.”

Nayer Radly
Buying Intelligence,
Project Lead

“ NMG Technologies did an excellent job throughout the whole project.They
impressed by developing a thorough strategy and communicating effectively with
the previous developer. They were stepped into an unfinished, poorly executed
project and delivered an outstanding product for launch. Their professionalism,
organization, and timely delivery set them apart.”

Arthur Chileshe
Homabroad,
Founder & CEO

“ The NMG team is not only very hard working but goes above and beyond to
deliver the best possible outcomes.NMG Technologies was professional and
dedicated to delivering high quality results. They offered responsive and
engaged customer service, routinely going above and beyond to rectify any
issues. The team suggested new ideas, gave honest feedback, and became an
invaluable part of the creative process.”

Adam Bronson Nardi
Online Dating Website,
Founder & Director

“ What set NMG apart from other companies was their experience in managing
complex programs. NMG Technologies provided a detailed specification document
and appropriate software solutions from the outset, delivering results very
close to the original proposal. The team was available to discuss issues,
replied promptly to emails, and provided constant updates.”

Sai Karan Vedulla
London & Partners,
VP & Chief Representative

“ NMG's quality of work and methodology were top-notch. They put together a
very well-structured team.NMG delivered an effective, client-focused website
that met all of the original requirements. They also stood out because of their
excellent customer service, responsive daily communication, and reasonable
prices.”

Paul Kinderman
Sappy Gram,
Founder

“ I found them responsible, timely, and diligent. NMG Technologies effectively
managed the development of multiple sites simultaneously, remaining agile and
responsive to day-to-day requirements. They provided open communication and
quickly implemented feedback.”

Alex Tisdale
Educational Startup,
Former CEO

“ They were very flexible and responsive throughout the whole thing. Within
four weeks of going live, the campaign generated qualified interest from over
400 companies. NMG Technologies accomplished the entire project within three
months and under budget. The team provided strategic insights into the B2B
segment and daily updates on nominations.”

Nicholas Passero
Sports Startup,
Founder

“ NMG is very entrepreneurial, and I think that helps a lot when working with a
small company. NMG Technologies provided an exceptionally high-quality product
through an organized, technically skilled approach. The agency showed their
commitment to the project's success by working long hours, involving senior
management in the details, and communicating frequently about deliveries. ”

Steve DelVecchia
Adaptive Professional Solutions (Now RGP),
CEO

OUR CLIENTS


NMG is used by 500+ businesses and brands

We're full service which means we've got you covered on user experience,
design, development, beta testing, maintenance, updates...a long term strategic
partner not a vendor.