+44-20-8016-2994
+1-866-489-6602
BOOK AN APPOINTMENT
+44-742-943-2199 Request Free Consultation

Sheikh Rashid Hall - F40 INDIA Pavilion Stand : 006
October 10 to 14, 2022

Schedule a Meeting
Win a free pass
Schedule a Meeting
Get A Free Pass
SUPER SUCCESS STORIES


Advanced SEO and Data-driven Content Strategy delivers rapid results for Atlys.

www.atlys.com

Advanced SEO Data-Driven Content Marketing Digital PR Technical SEO On-Page
Audit





2,33,000 +

Organic Traffic Increased in 3 Months



12million+

Impressions Gained



3,34,000 +

Organic Clicks Increase



1200+

Keywords in Top 3



20000 +

Keywords in Top 20


Mohak Nahta


CEO and Founder, Atlys Inc.


(Invested by Andreessen Horowitz)


“NMG is my sigh of relief. It’s rare to find an SEO agency you can trust to
create data driven Advanced SEO and content marketing strategies while staying
focused on your unique business and achieving the desired results. The personal
attention they give our projects and the ownership they take over the results
help us stay focused on our mission to enable every person on earth to travel
freely.”

Press Release


NMG Technologies to Sponsor and Exhibit at Brighton SEO and Online PR Show 2023

March 29, 2023
NMG Technologies will showcase its Advanced SEO and Web development services in
front of 3500 senior Digital Marketing industry professionals at Brighton
Centre, Brighton, UK

NMG Technologies, a full-service digital marketing services provider, is
delighted to participate in the highly anticipated Brighton SEO 2023 event,
scheduled for April 20-21, 2023, and the Online PR show ( a Brighton SEO fringe
event) on 19th April 2023.

View More
Awards And Certifications


Top Advance SEO and Web development Solution provider

We offer a comprehensive full service Digital Marketing , including Advanced
SEO, Data-driven Content Marketing, Content Writing, Pay-per-click (PPC) , Web
development, UI/UX design, E-commerce website development, Conversion
optimization (CRO), Link building and Digital PR.

AT BRIGHTON SEO


Meet Our Representatives


Mohit Maheshwari


Director, NMG Technologies


Rohit Maheshwari


Director, NMG Technologies

Schedule a Meeting
WHAT WE OFFER


Services


Advanced SEO

Our Advanced SEO process are state of the art and practiced by top SEO
scientist from all over the world. They are integrated processes which can be
run on monthly retainer basis and also on agile basis. They identify technical
on-page optimization and backlink building and content opportunities that help
you attract more qualified traffic. Thus helping dive higher quality leads,
improve rankings , revenue growth and stay ahead of the competition 🚀


Data-Driven Content Marketing

We build an analytical approach for your online content marketing campaigns
with tailored data-driven content briefs . We deep dive and Know your buyer
persona, create content strategy and do content writing through a network of
inhouse content producers and international subject matter experts across 20+
industries. Content is king but data is the guiding light.


Link Building & Digital PR

We use sophisticated outreach processes and reverse engineer link and link gaps
to improve the backlink profile and reach quality publishers. With a network of
more then 2000 journalist , 22000+ publishers across 20+ industries and proven
case studies across 25+ outreach processes our link building is built to scale.


Ecommerce Development

We have developed over 200+ ecommerce websites from large scale stores to small
start ups. We use Magento , Shopify , Woo commerce and create beautiful stores
which are also search engine friendly. You get security and scalability in one
place and your customers get unmatched shopping experiences.


Web Development

For over 15 years we have built websites and user experiences with love. Today
we are using data driven user intent reverse engineering to make Site maps ,
Information Architectures (IA) , Wireframes , UI / UX to create fantastic web
experiences which also are responsive designs. Our website are blazing fast and
search engine friendly. We use Wordpress and Hubspot as our goto CMS choices.


Conversion Rate Optimization

Our CRO process uses over 300+ CRO factors to improve website experience on
Ecommerce and Lead generation website . We help improve bounce rate , increase
average time spent on site , site speed , Checkout process , Upselling / cross
selling , Increasing average cart value.


Great Experts with Great Solutions.
Don’t Get Late.

Schedule a Meeting
What We Offer


Advance SEO Processes


Competitor Analysis

NMG conducts in-depth competitor analysis using over 100 factors to understand
the industry landscape. This allows us to analyze competitors' strategies for
effective SEO planning.


Master Keyword Research

Our data-driven process for mastering keyword research helps to expand the
universe of keywords. We use data to guide us in creating a structured sitemap
and finalizing the content calendar for the year.


Low Hanging Fruit

Our Low-Hanging Fruit process enables us to target keywords that rank at the
bottom of the 1st and 2nd pages of Google SERP. With data-driven research and
content creation, we aim to bring these keywords into the top 5 rankings within
30 days.


Epic Content

Our Epic Content process helps us create long-form content to establish subject
matter authority in the industry. This approach enables us to rank for over
1000 keywords from a single page.


Content Layering

NMG's strategic Content Layering process includes auditing low-quality content
and identifying dead weight pages on the website. We use advanced SEO tools and
3rd-party APIs to gather data for 50+ points on page level to create a
strategic plan.


Digital PR and Link Building

Our Digital PR and sophisticated Link Building process follow 25+ advanced link
building strategies to earn natural links for the website. We have access to a
database of 23,000+ publishers across 22+ industries, for which we use
automated industry-leading tools to execute our outreach.

Advanced SEO and Data-driven Content Strategy delivers rapid results for Atlys.



2,33,000 +

Organic Traffic Increased in 3 Months



12million+

Impressions Gained




3,34,000 +

Organic Clicks Increase



1200+

Keywords in Top 3




20000 +

Keywords in Top 20

Local SEO processes and Content Strategies deliver appointments and business
growth to the Orthopedic and Sports Medicine clinic.



400%

Increase in Organic Traffic



1,50,000 +

Impressions Gained




150 +

Keywords in Top 10



300+

Keywords in Top 20




98%

Increase in Phone Call

Technical SEO combined with Data-driven Content Marketing achieves results for
firearms, parts, and accessories online retailer.



135%

Increase in Organic Traffic


88.15%

Organic Revenue



1.5 million +

Impressions Gained




1,00,000 +

Organic Clicks




800 +

Keywords in Top 3

Advanced SEO and Link building processes help improve website structure and
deliver high-quality leads for movers and packers.



464%

Organic Traffic Increased



4,00,000 +

Impressions Gained




1500 +

Organic Clicks Increase



200+

Keywords in Top 10




250 +

Keywords in Top 20

Advanced SEO combined with Conversion Rate Optimization helps online vape
retailer grow sales.



115%

Organic Traffic Increased


75%

Sale Revenue Increased




900 +

Keywords in Top 10




13k +

Keywords in Top 20




2, 00, 000 +

Impressions Gained

Data-driven SEO solutions that deliver measurable results for online reputation
management agency.



2800%

Organic Traffic Increased




4,00,000

Impressions Gained




4000 +

Organic Clicks Increase




300 +

Keywords in Top 10




250 +

Keywords in Top 20

Cutting-edge SEO and Content Marketing strategies deliver high visibility for
leading global eyewear brand.



166%

Organic Traffic Increased




6k +

Organic Clicks Increase




150 +

Keywords in Top 3




550 +

Keywords in Top 10




10, 00, 000 +

Impressions Gained

Clients Reviews


Clients Who Trust Us

    • "NMG is my sigh of relief. Finding an SEO agency, you can trust to create
      data-driven, Advanced SEO and Content Marketing strategies while staying
      focused on your unique business and achieving the desired results is
      rare. The personal attention they give to our projects and their
      ownership over the results help us fulfill our mission to enable every
      person on earth to travel freely."


      Mohak Nahta

      CEO and Founder, Atlys Inc.
      (Invested By Andreessen Horowitz)
    • "NMG is a reliable agency when it comes to SEO and Content Marketing.
      They don’t just rely on trendy tactics but also use data and analytics to
      create strategies that work. Our business has seen a significant
      improvement in Local Search Ranking since partnering with them. The SEO
      campaign led to increased appointments via the website and footfalls in
      the clinic."


      Christopher R. Sforzo

      Founder
      Sforzo | Dillingham | Stewart Orthopedics
    • “NMG is the real deal when it comes to eCommerce SEO. We were blown away
      by their Advanced SEO strategies that helped increase our sales and
      revenue. Since joining forces with NMG, our sales and revenue have
      skyrocketed, and we couldn’t be more impressed with the team's expertise,
      responsiveness, and unwavering commitment to delivering results. Hands
      down, the best decision ever made for our business. Highly recommended!”


      Bob Serva

      President and CEO
      Fusion Firearms
    • "NMG is a game changer in the SEO industry. We have worked with several
      other agencies, but none came close to the level of expertise,
      creativity, and result-driven focus that NMG brings. Their SEO experts
      know how to craft winning strategies that give real and measurable
      results."


      Blake Fitzpatrick

      Owner and Founder
      Sunshine Movers
    • "I was hesitant to invest in SEO services, but NMG made the process easy
      and effective. Their data-driven strategies and attention to detail have
      helped our business grow significantly. I highly recommend NMG to anyone
      looking to improve their online presence."


      Eli Eroch

      Owner
      AtmosRx
    • "I cannot speak highly enough of NMG, the digital marketing company that
      helped take my business to new heights. From Search Engine Optimization
      and Link Building to Data-driven Content Briefs and Website Maintenance,
      NMG provided a comprehensive suite of services that ensured my brand
      reached the right audience at the right time. They were always available
      to answer my questions and provided regular updates on the progress of my
      campaigns, which gave me the confidence to trust in their ability to
      deliver."


      Todd William

      Founder
      Reputation Rhino
    • "If you are looking for an SEO agency that truly cares about your
      business and your success, look no further than NMG. Their team is
      knowledgeable, trustworthy, and committed to delivering results that
      exceed expectations."


      Mihir Trivedi

      Head of marketing
      Nikon Lenswear
OUR CLIENTS


NMG is used by 300+ businesses and brands

We’re full service which means we’ve got you covered on digital marketing ,
advanced seo , design , development and content right through to growth


Are you READY to discuss your project?

( Give us your project details and WIN A FREE PASS)


About NMG

NMG is a global full-service digital marketing agency that specializes in
developing websites and e-commerce stores capable of driving massive organic
traffic through advanced search engine optimization (SEO), link building, and
data-driven content marketing. Our agency has been in operation since 2008.


Team NMG

Our team of 150 professionals, including digital strategists, search marketers,
UI/UX designers, web developers, project managers, account managers, and
industry experts have been working in the SEO industry since 2000. We have
successfully helped our clients achieve their organic traffic goals by building
effective strategies and processes.


Why NMG

We are proud to have worked with top brands such as Bacardi, Nikon, Intuit,
Harvard Alumni Network, Avery Dennison, London and Partners, World Health
Organization, and Oxfam. In addition, we have collaborated with e-commerce
store owners, startups, and SMBs in more than 30 countries, helping them
achieve tangible business results through our Digital marketing strategies and
Advanced SEO processes.


CONTACT

304 S. Jones Blvd #3799, Las Vegas NV 89107 United States
brightonseo@nmgtechnologies.com
UK: +44-742-943-2199
USA: +1-312-626-7733
INDIA: +91-124-4424655

Copyright © 2008 - 2024 NMG

Privacy Policy