Web


PHP and Open Source

NEW MEDIA GURU (NMG) has a dedicated Open Source competency center (OSCC) .
Open source is the platform of choice for digital agencies around the world

Nishtha
Aug 26, 2011
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 2 minutes

NEW MEDIA GURU (NMG) has a dedicated Open Source competency center (OSCC) .
Open source is the platform of choice for digital agencies around the world
servicing brands , web start ups , ecommerce platforms and rich content driven
sites and blogs.

We have an experienced team of PHP developers well-versed in Linux Apache MySQL
PHP (LAMP) & AJAX. You can hire PHP and MySQL developers from us for all your
web application development requirements.

New Media Guru (NMG) has been investing in customizing and deploying Open
Source Applications and frameworks and we are committed to growing this
competency even further. Our rich portfolio of web applications on LAMP
platform and work done in different industries with unique business models is
proof enough to prove our capability and knowledge base.

Over the years we have gained experience in a variety of projects that enables
us to expand our offshore development solutions to building:

    • Ecommerce using Magento , OS Commerce , Joomla , WordPress
    • Web marketplaces
    • Social networking solutions and platform integrations
    • Online auctions platforms
    • Group on like daily deal platforms
    • Multivendor stores
    • Classified sites
    • Directory listings sites
    • Online booking engines

We have a lot of experience with using Agile programming model for development
of Open Source web applications.

All of our PHP developers work on Linux using both custom development and
robust Open Source frameworks ( like Zend , Cake ,MVC , Symphony and Code
igniter ). Our dedicated testing team supports the development efforts and test
the application on all the browsers from Mozilla to IE to Safari.


Development in PHP

NMG provides timely, efficient and affordable PHP Programming Services to build
dynamic websites running on the PHP, Apache and MySQL for delivering dynamic
websites and powerful backend admin systems .


Open Source platforms we love

We use many open source PHP platforms for powering solutions for our clients.
These platforms range from WordPress, Magento, Drupal, Joomla , Moodle and many
others (please put logos)

Web


Similar posts

Technology


.NET Core: 20 Advantages of Building Your Software in ASP.NET Core

Microsoft has now launched Asp.NET Core as a high performance, open-source,
modern, cloud-based framework to build enterprise applications.

Nishtha Feb 3, 2020
Technology


A guide to Laravel – Everything you need to know about Laravel

Laravel is the most popular open-source PHP framework designed for building web
applications in 2022. Learn to develop web applications with the...

Nishtha Jan 11, 2020
Events


NMG to Participate in the Largest Tech Expo in the Middle East - GITEX Global
2022, Dubai

GITEX Global 2022 is all set to take place in Dubai with its huge showcase of
enterprise solutions between 10-14 October 2022. Learn about the latest

Nishtha Sep 15, 2022


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.