Skip to content

Search


Create App - Detailed Guide to App UI Design for Mobile App Developers

Complete mobile application development guide to help you design and develop
the best-in-class Android and iOS apps

1. Today most of the time is spent consuming digital media on mobile apps.
2. Users spend about 90 percent of their time using applications on mobile
devices.
3. Around 85 percent of users prefer native mobile apps on mobile.
4. About 42 percent of mobile sales of Fortune 500 organizations are done
through mobile apps.

Table of Content

Chapter 4 Chapter 6


CHAPTER 5

This chapter will give you a brief introduction to iOS App Development. It will
provide solutions to questions like “What are the benefits of the iOS app
development business?” and “Which programming language is used for developing
native iOS apps?”

Going through the chapter, you will understand, “Which software is used to
develop iOS apps?” and “What tools do I need to develop an iOS app?”

Also, you will get to know, “How much does it cost to develop an iOS app?”

iOS App Development

If your association's customers, employees, and partners are among the millions
of Apple iPhone users around the globe, you have a clear vision behind creating
iOS.

It is the development of an application for a mobile platform that is used by
millions of people worldwide.

These applications work only on devices that run on Apple Operating System or
devices.

If you do a proper planning and the correct assets, you can join the positions
of iOS designers.

What is iOS App Development?

iOS App Development is specially meant to develop applications that work only
on the iOS platform.

iOS applications open the doors to a vast customer base.

Mobile apps are not developed just for B2C businesses, but it is also made for
B2B companies to expand their services, operations, and solutions across
industries.

There are two types of iOS Application Development:

Native iOS app development and Hybrid iOS app development


1. Native iOS Application Development
Native iOS app development is the process of creating applications that run in
iOS devices.

Native iOS app development is done by using languages and development tools
like Objective C, Xcode, Swift, etc.…

2. Hybrid iOS Application Development
Hybrid apps are created by using languages and development tools like
JavaScript. CSS, HTML, React Native, etc.

Before moving forward to understand the languages used for iOS development, it
is essential to know how iOS app development will benefit your organization.

We will now understand the benefits of iOS application development.

What are the benefits of the iOS app development business?

Whether you are running a business or have an idea for starting a business,
creating iOS applications can solve real-world problems.

Here are the top benefits of iOS app development.

1. Paid App
You will have more paying clients as Apple users are willing to pay more in
comparison with Android for an application.

2. Customer Experience
iOS customers are happy with the services that result in an excellent customer
experience.

3. Tech-Savvy Users
Tech Savvy users are always attracted to the iPhone.

4. Easy testing and low fragmentation
iOS has fewer device types and versions that empower developers to develop and
test applications rapidly and add advantages to the business.

5. Increase brand reach
iOS apps are designed to increase brand reach, increase user base and revenue.
Further, these are designed to increase employee productivity.

6. Increases customer base
iOS app development helps businesses expand their customer base by increasing
their reach to devices, and hence they start getting conversions.

After understanding the benefits of iOS application development, we will now
follow the languages used for iOS app development.

Also, know about NMG’s approach to iOS app development.

Which programming language is used for developing native iOS apps?

There are various languages like Objective-C, Swift, Python, C#, C++, and HTML
5.

Objective C and Swift are the two most used languages for creating iOS
applications.

Objective C
Objective-C is an object-oriented and general-purpose programming language that
is also a superset of C language.

Passing messages between objects is a significant feature of Objective-C that
is useful for the native iOS app development.

Before the launch of Swift, which is Apple's programming language, developers
were using Objective C as their primary language for iOS app development.

Swift
Swift is a multi-paradigm, general-purpose, and well-compiled language
introduced by Apple Inc. to develop apps for multiple devices such as iOS,
macOS, iPadOS, watchOS, Linux, tvOS, and z/OS.

Moving beyond Objective-C in terms of popularity and usage, Swift is now a
primary programming language of Apple Inc. Apps for iOS, watchOS, macOS, tvOS,
and other Apple devices.

We will now discuss the software for developing iOS Applications.

Which software is used to develop iOS apps?

Here we will discuss XCode, which is a software to develop iOS apps.

XCode is the IDE (Integrated Development Environment) made by Apple. This
software is built to develop applications for iOS, macOS, tvOS, and watchOS.

XCode is the official tool used for developing and publishing the application
in the Apple Store.

XCode contains all the tools required to build an app within a software
package; this includes:
   1. A text editor
   2. A compiler
   3. A creation system

A developer can compile, write, and debug iOS applications, and after finishing
the process, they can submit it to the Apple App Store.

It has many tools for supporting the development process that helps developers
build apps faster. On the other hand, beginners face fewer issues and hurdles
to create high applications using XCode.

After having an understanding of iOS app development software, we want to take
you through the scope of tools you can use for iOS development.

What tools do I need to develop an iOS app?

For iOS development tools, we've compiled a list of the best tools created for
Objective-C and Swift.

The advantage of Apple's official language is that these can be used in native
iOS coding, in comparison to Android, where plugins can work with specific IDEs
and editors.

Editors and IDEs
An IDE is a workbench that is based on GUI (graphical user interface) and helps
build software or applications with all the necessary tools in an integrated
environment.

Tools:
    • XCode
    • AppCode
    • Code Runner

Language Resources
Swift and Objective C are the two widely used languages for iOS app
development.

    • Swift
    • Objective-C

Libraries
The SwiftToolbox and CocoaPods provide you access to a vast number of
libraries.

    • SwiftToolbox
    • CocoaPods
    • RxSwift


Plug-ins
There are “n” numbers of plugins available for free or paid versions. Here are
the three best plugins:

    • Alcatraz
    • CocoaPods
    • Injection for Xcode

In this section, we have covered almost all the essential tools that are
required in iOS App Development. Now we will discuss the most critical aspect
of iOS App Development, i.e., Cost.

How much does it cost to develop an iOS app?

You have to learn programming languages like Objective-C/Swift, or you will
need to hire a developer who has the experience in these two languages.

For iOS app development, you will require an Apple Mac since you can't make iOS
applications on Windows or Linux. Also, you will have to subscribe to the
application store.

iOS Development Cost
The expense of a typical iOS application can range from $25000-$100,000,
relying upon features, complexity, and interface of the app.

You have to figure out what you need and what you don't. It helps you explain
the project requirement and lets you estimate the amount you will possibly
spend on your application.

What is meant by an iOS developer?

An iOS developer is responsible for creating applications for smartphones
powered by Apple OS.

A good iOS developer must possess experience in one of the two programming
languages: Objective-C or Swift.

An iOS developer must have a solid understanding of the practices and patterns.

Here are the responsibilities of an iOS developer.
    • An IOS developer has the responsibility for building and developing iOS
      applications.
    • He/She has to ensure the quality, performance, and responsiveness of iOS
      applications.
    • A developer needs to collaborate with a team to analyze, design, and show
      the result.
    • He/She needs to maintain organization, quality, and automatization of
      codes.
    • Should have excellent communication and decision-making skills.
    • Must possess a track record of releasing high-quality apps and services.

After understanding the responsibilities of an iOS developer, we will now
discuss the essential skills required for iOS developers.

What are the skills required for an iOS developer?

Companies who are looking for an iOS developer have to keep the following hacks
in mind:
    • A developer must know about iOS development (Swift, Object C, XCode)
    • He/She must know system specifications and requirements according to
      which he will develop the iOS app.
    • A must-have knowledge of iOS frameworks like Core Animation, Core Data,
      and many more.
    • Must have experience with threading, offline storage, and performance
      tuning.
    • He/She must be familiar with the Restful API for connecting back-end
      services to iOS applications.
    • Must have an understanding of push notification and Cloud message APIs.
    • He/She must be familiar with continuous integration.

Completing the above phase is not enough, as you also need to be aware of the
primary tactics besides the technical ones when you hire iOS developers.

How to hire an iOS app developer?

To hire an iOS developer, you need a developer who has the complete knowledge
and understanding and good experience in iOS app development.

Here is the list of responsibilities and skills required to hire an iOS
developer:

Skills
    • A high level knowledge of languages and tools used in iOS app development
      (Objective C, Swift, XCode, and others).
    • He/She must know iOS frameworks such as Core Animations, Core Data, and
      many more.
    • A developer must know system specifications and requirements according to
      which he/she will develop an iOS app.
    • To add back-end services to an iOS application, he/she must be familiar
      with the Restful API.
Responsibilities
    • He/She should bear the responsibility of creating and designing iOS
      applications.
    • He/She needs to collaborate with a team to analyze, design, and show
      results.
    • A developer has to ensure the performance, accountability, and quality of
      the iOS application.
    • A developer needs to maintain excellent communication and decision-making
      skills.
    • He/She must have an excellent track record of releasing high-quality apps
      and services.

This was all in this section! I hope the chapter covered all the essential
aspects of iOS development.