Featured


Want to build an app like Uber? Read more for exact estimations.

Want to develop an app like Uber? Learn how to build your own Mobile app like
Uber app, know the costs and other details of mobile app development.

Nishtha
Oct 4, 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 0 minutes

Uber has taken over the world by storm, it created a new genre of apps in
mobile app development which is the taxi apps. There’s a huge growth in demand
for mobile apps like Uber, mostly uber like applications with minor changes
here and there.

There’s a huge growth in demand for mobile apps like Uber, mostly uber like
applications with minor changes here and there.

Some even try to apply the uber like business strategy in other industries too.
But the question is…

How much does it cost to build an app like Uber?

But before you know the answer, or actually the estimation. Do we need to know
how does uber work? How is the current mobile app development scene?

So how does Uber work?

Well, Uber is an app by which you could order a taxi service and the nearest
taxi will pick you up.

And one of the main reasons for uber being famous is the taxi service could be
provided by any part-timer, he doesn’t have to work full-time for Uber. You
could be one too!

Uber nearly has a billion users in approximately 77 countries, the Uber
services cost way cheaper than a traditional local cab. And also the service
time is lightning fast.

These factors made uber really successful, but how are they able to do it?

Ever thought about that?

Yes, it’s the mobile application which is the main tool for their success,
which has brought a revolution in the taxi services.

Learn More About Tips to make your App rank high in App Store and Google Play Store

So what about the cost to build one?

Remember that Mobile app developing companies have come a long way since the
Uber app was first developed, many factors have changed and many new features
were also added on Uber.

Factors like App architecture, developer rates also play an important role,
keeping all these factors in Mind we are going to estimate the approximate cost
of building this app in the current environment.

Before we do that let’s talk about its features, shall we?


Essential Features of Rider/Passenger Interface

You should know that an app like Uber is different for a Driver and a
passenger, so basically there are two apps for Uber with two different
interfaces which will help them coordinate comfortably.

The Passenger app is used for booking a cab of course and the Driver app is
used for the driver to receive service requests from the passengers.

User interface looks something like this on the Uber iPhone app.

Discussing the Passenger app first, the cost of the app will vary mainly
because of the number of features you want to add to your app.

Learn about Our Mobile Development Services

The List of features a passenger app contains are:

Registration and Login page
A user has to be registered to start using Uber, you can either login with your
email ID or Login with your Google or Facebook accounts. Most importantly you
need to attach your Credit/Debit card to your user account for the bill payment.

Most importantly you need to attach your Credit/Debit card to your user account
for the bill payment.

Booking Interface
This part of the page will give you access to view all the available cabs and
to book a cab, you need to enter the address where you would like to travel and
also set a location to pick up.

Tracking
Before the booking process you can check the driver’s current location from you
and After the booking process you can keep a track of your journey, which is
shown in the form of an animated car moving in the map.

I personally find it really cute!

Price calculator
The price calculator helps you in estimating your ride cost from your location
to the destination, the price varies depending upon different conditions like

• The amount of time taken due to traffic conditions
• Whether it’s night or day
• Toll taxes and state taxes if you are traveling cross country
• The type of ride you have chosen (Uber has different categories of rides
available)

Payments
Cashless payments and in-app payments are paid automatically with the
registered credit card or an e-wallet, the user would receive and In-voice for
the payment, even if you pay by cash.

Push Notifications
Push notifications will give the information of the cab which they are
allocated, order status, estimated time of arrival, and other driver
information.

Apart from this information they are also used for promotions like promo codes,
special offers and any important information like unavailability.

Messaging, rating, and reviews. Booking History.
Uber app does not really have a full-time messaging except for help and support
column.

Rating and reviews give the information of the driver and his rating according
to the previous passengers, the rating is given 5 stars and the average of the
overall rating is what is displayed.

Soon after you finish your ride a push notification is sent, asking you about
the ride experience and comments if any.

And there is a rating for a passenger to which we will discuss on the driver’s
app features below.

The booking history has all the information of your previous rides with the
information of the Driver and the car number information.

This feature is for both your and Driver’s safety.

Take a look at the picture below. It has all the information you need about the
features we have discussed.


Feature of a Driver’s app

Surely! Not many of you know about the features of a driver’s app, and I have
always been curious to know what lies on the other side.

Registration
Yes, they need to register too, quite obvious. But yes Driver’s need
registration too but the process is quite different.

 NMG Recognized as a Top Performing Mobile App Development Company by GoodFirms

The driver has to submit with verification (tax number) and an approval by an
administrator will be sent, his profile and status will be created.

Booking
The driver will be notified if a passenger nearby requests for a ride, the
driver will have an option to either accept or decline the incoming offer, the
passenger’s information is displayed instantly along with the passenger rating.

Remember I’ve mentioned about this above. And also the booking history.

Push Notifications
Push Notifications on the driver’s app are for order alerts, taxi booking data
which has the information of location, payment, route etc. and also about order
updates if at all there is any change of plans in the direction from the
passenger side and order completion.

Navigation
Uber app usually redirects the driver’s side route guide to google maps and
google assistant will assist the driver with a voice over.

Cost Estimation, reports, messaging, support
In addition to the app, there is someone who would manage the process of
allocating drivers and also estimating the cost of a ride, drivers from a
central point an admin panel is required.

It is the web application that facilitates interactions with the customers,
manages ride routes, payments, and all the other additional required data.

Both the apps have something in common, Geo-location services which helps both
the driver and passenger track each other.

Geo-location Services and Routing
Uber uses GPS services to identify the customer’s current location, display the
cars in the neighborhood and build the route for the driver with real-time
navigation.

The fare is calculated based on the proposed routing. Proposed routing because
google maps use the fastest route method skipping all the busy areas.

And the fair is calculated based on the proposed route. more traffic on your
route, the more you pay as simple as that.

In fact, the routing and GPS technology is one of the key elements of the app’s
popularity among users – you just press a button and watch how the vehicle
approaches you, I know I’ve mentioned this before.

An interesting fact is there is so much work that goes into building such a
cool feature!

Now that you are well aware of the features of the Uber app from both Driver
and passenger point of view, it’s time to know the technology or the brain
behind building an app like uber.


Technology used to build an app like Uber

Keeping in mind that Uber has already disclosed its API to public and
developers and introduced the affiliated program, you can also build own
tailored Uber-like app.

Server, mapping, and payments are the three giant foundations to develop a taxi
app. First off, to process hundreds of user requests, driver routes, and other
data you need own server.

What are the Programming languages used for developing Uber app?

Languages used in backend are
• Node.js
• Python
• Java
• PHP
• Ruby on Rails

Learn About  7 Best Mobile App Analytics Tools – Which one suits you?

If you are creating a uber clone one of the key elements, you need to remember
is GPS.

OpenStreetMap API for both iOS/Android can be used.

Platform-specific tools in this regard for Android could be Google Maps and
Google Location services API.

But for iOS devices, MapKit or CoreLocation framework is used.

So uber supports in-app payments through credit cards, PayPal or any other
mobile e-wallet. You can also use a wide range of gateway adapters to develop
an app like uber, I will list a few.

• Stripe
• BrainTree
• Paytm
• PayPal Mobile SDK.

Technology stack for push notifications is quite straightforward; Google
Firebase for Android and Apple push for iOS devices.

For SMS send outs Uber has announced they have partnered with Twilio and also
through other cloud communication platforms, like Plivo, Nexmo, Tropo do the
same job, which gives you a cheaper option.

I will not pan you out with more of the backend stuff!

Let’s get back to the budget and development costs, shall we?

So what are the key cost components?

Let’s not get into the details, rather make the components into groups which
make it easy to understand, let’s briefly review big and general chunks of work
that go into an app like Uber.

So what are those components?

• Backend development
• Web development
• Native app development which includes both the platforms Android and iOS
• Designing
• Management and quality assurance


What exactly happens in the background?

A backend is something which helps in constructing the whole infrastructure of
an idea, will all the connections between elements is the foundation.

In the quest of building an app like Uber, this would be the first stage. This
would be the platform itself with all the features we’ve mentioned above.

Mobile app development companies use JavaScript, Python or Java Language
developers would have to build the app’s core and link it to user interfaces,
both passenger and driver app. Which will be a very long process and time
taking too.

All of that data would be stored on a single database system, like PostgreSQL,
though scalable storage is more efficient.

For your better understanding, we have designed a simple understanding shown
below.

It’s probably impossible to estimate the backend accurately regarding the
timeline and resources. Each and every feature in Uber-like an app is a time
taking and painful work.

If you ask me, an average feature of Uber could take up to 2-3 months or even
more in some cases. You need to use some serious management skills to pull this
heavy cart.

Native iOS/Android
If you want to make a cheaper version of Uber by cutting down costs at some
reasonable area, you will have to choose a single platform.

Yes, this is one of the strategies many of the app developing companies
suggest. Because covering both iOS and Android would be of personal preference.

Any Mobile app development company has the capacity to create apps on both the
platforms.

Backend and functionality would be same either for Android or iOS, while tools
and frameworks in use would be platform-specific.

For example, Google Wallet or Apple pay, or various PayPal affiliate services.

How long does it take?

About 200 hours at least.

After the backend, it’s the design which makes Uber, Uber Cool!

Design
If you are building an app like Uber make sure it is as cool as Uber, and also
don’t forget that it should be very easy to use because most of the customers
would be in a hurry and design shouldn’t cause any trouble.

Fewer the taps to book a ride better it is for your business.

There are a few basics you need to keep in mind before you plan your design

• The app should be familiar
• Simplicity will always win hearts
• If you are doing something new make it edible.
• And the last thing to remember, it should be clear and easy to understand.

And what’s the estimated timeline and price for the design?

Let’s find out!

The timing will heavily depend on how many custom animations, transitions and
interactive element you would want to implement in your app.

Any Designer would suggest the best of features, but it’s your duty to select
the ones which are essential and which can be compromised, more animations are
the heavier app and vice versa.

Remember to Keep it light on the user.

It’s estimated that it would take 200 hours at least for the design part.

And an overall estimated cost for designing would depend on the animations and
transitions you choose which could be ranging from $8,000 – $15,000 for an app
like Uber.

Registration/Login Page and User Profiles
Like every app, you need to create an account if you need a ride, same goes
with Uber too.

You can allow “no-profile” bookings at the early stages to grow your database
and use them to suggest in creating a profile on your app after maybe his/her
first ride.

Social media integration is a must these days, while you can still choose to
support email registration as well.

Make sure your app request access only to essential user data and clearly
states that it will never post anything on their behalf.

The driver app should require more complicated registrations and immediately
request a photo, car license plate number, the copy of the driver license.

Additionally, you can actually integrate a rating system to leverage the app’s
security and boost customer satisfaction.

Your customers should be able to rate and comment on the driver’s behavior and
driving, in return, you need to take respective actions in terms of bonuses or
fines.

Yes, bonuses! It’s not always about the customers. You need drivers too for
your business expansion.
Doing this will encourage more users to leave reviews and drivers to act
responsibly.

Messaging and Notifications
There must be a communication between the Driver and the passenger, Maps won’t
help the driver find the passenger in a crowd either it’s small or large.

They need to exchange some information, and if it is provided through the app
it saves time for both of them.

Other information like instructions on the pickup point, estimated time of
arrival, short updates it there is any delay and so on.

Uber has a simple built-in text messaging system for that – a lighter version
of a standard chat like WhatsApp would be a great addition, although it may not
be a mandatory thing in the beginning.

Your app must send in push notifications to the users, informing users on their
ride details and drivers on the possible new orders.

You could also send in an SMS notification along with the Push notification.
However, that may add-up additional costs brought in by the third party service
provider.

Email notifications are Old but they are a must for at least send in the
In-voice after the ride.
Also sending in offers and other information will be easy when you enable push
notifications.


So How much does it cost to build an app like Uber?

I’ve already mentioned above there are a lot of factors which contribute to
estimating the price, it’s not like the app development companies try to hide
to the price.

Honestly, they themselves cannot give out a figure unless you give them your
requirements.

When I was doing my research, I was reading a blog on a Mobile app development
company.

There was a chat window on the corner of the website and I got a notification
saying “Hi! how can I help you?” straight away I’ve typed in my question “How
much does it cost to build an app like Uber?”.

Developing an app similar to Uber is an all-inclusive process that combines
many development phases that each have different cost implications. The first
stage, studying and analysis, can be considered the most important factor
because here, you understand who your clients are and adjust all of your app
features accordingly. This part can be used as a precondition to situate and
verify the idea for the rough prototype, which will affect the development cost
establishment.

The design phase closely follows market research that promises to yield high
returns on investment, focusing on cost expenditures. UI and UX design are
concerned not only with the application’s beauty but also with the app’s
characteristics, which should be fan-like. This creates a demand for
professional designers who can architect an interactive and appealing site.
This stage, though, is directly proportional to costs attributable to the
intricacy and specificity of the envisaged app style.

It is during this period that most of the budget is allocated. One of the major
points is deciding between a native app made for a particular platform, such as
iOS or Android, and a multiplatform app. This decision determines the price
significantly. Native programming, despite being more expensive, offers a
customized experience for each platform. On the other hand, cross-platform apps
offer a more cost-efficient solution with a wider outreach, but some individual
features may be lost.

Other stages correspond to additional features like real-time tracking, payment
gateways, and push notifications, which significantly impact costs. These
features are essential for an Uber-like app, requiring advanced back-end
infrastructure and APIs to ensure a smooth process and maintain data security.

Maintenance and updates to the application after its original launch are an
ongoing effort that requires an expense to keep it operational, secure, and up
to the mark. Of those tasks, I find fixing problems, upgrading the app after
every new operating system version, and adding features requested by app users
to be the most challenging.

Finally, the expenses required for developing an app such as Uber vary greatly,
including costs that can go into the million-dollar range, with countless
factors determining these costs. The selection among native and cross-platform
features, the complexity level, and the tech integrations’ target depth would
mainly affect backslash, path/#cross, path, and backward path selections.

Guess what the answer he gave.

The same thing I’ve been telling you throughout this Blog.

I’ve had a good conversation with the person, he was speaking from the point of
view of an App developer.

So, the estimated price for an app like Uber is between $20,000 – $40,000 if
you would want to start basic, but if you want something more premium the price
range is from $90,000 – $150,000.

The premium price is what the exact copy of the uber mobile app would be.

NMG could give you a detailed overview if you would want a Taxi app for
yourself, actually, they could build you one. They are one of the best
companies I’ve known in mobile app development.

Request Free Pricing


Frequently Asked Questions


1. How do I make an app like Uber?

There are a few steps that are involved in developing an app like Uber and
following the same will get you an app exactly like Uber -

    • First, create a business model by analyzing market demands and also by
      defining all your requirements.
    • Next, evaluate the demographics and determine your business target
      audience for whom do you want to create an app like Uber.


2. How much does it cost to build an app like Uber?

The estimated cost to develop a basic app like Uber is between $20,000 -
$40,000. But if you wish to add some more premium features exactly lime Uber
app, the cost will rise around up to $90,000 - $150,000.


3. What programming language is uber written in?

JavaScript plays a major role in handling most of the tech side of this
ride-hailing app. Rest, along with JavaScript, Objective C is also there to
make all the features and functions easily accessible on all the Android and
iPhone devices.


4. How long does it take to develop an app like Uber?

There is a long list of features and functions to be included in the app like
Uber. Therefore, the development time entirely depends on the number and
complexity of the features to get developed and integrated. Generally, it takes
approximately 20 weeks to create a complex app like Uber.


5. Who built Uber app?

Garrett Camp and Travis Kalanick both are strong who brought the idea of Uber
app to the market. The two are good friends and contributed their 110% to make
the simple Android and iOS geolocator the verb for today’s local passengers.


6. How much does it cost to maintain an app?

Generally, the maintenance cost is included in the software development package
but it’s for a limited after app launch. If you want to additionally maintain
your app for the long term, you’ll have to incur 15-20 percent of the software
development costs for the same.


7. How much does it cost to build an app in 2020?

The cost to develop an app like Uber usually differs depending on the features,
functionality, and most importantly the technology you opt for the quality
development. The trend to develop an app like Uber is picking momentum thus
it’s possible that it requires big bucks to get the task accomplished with
quality and within stipulated time frames.


8. How much does it cost to develop a taxi app?

A simple taxi biking app gets developed approximately between $4000 - $10,000
whereas if you want to integrate additional functions to add more value to your
product, the cost will rise accordingly.

Featured


Similar posts

Featured


Top 15 Cross-platform Frameworks for Mobile Development in 2020

Want to learn about hybrid mobile app development framework? Here's the list of
the best hybrid apps frameworks for 2022 which will help you to...

Nishtha Nov 10, 2017
Design


Role Of Wireframes In Mobile App Development

Mobile app development is a complicated process. Wireframing should be the
first step in it. Here's a complete guide for the mobile app wireframe in...

Nishtha Nov 8, 2017
Mobile


8 Reasons to choose Android Application Development over iOS

In this modern era where there are many mobile operating systems, this artilce
will tell you 8 reasons to choose Android Application Development.

Nishtha Feb 29, 2020


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.