Skip to content

Search


How Reputation Rhino achieved a 2800% increase in their organic traffic in 24
months

Reputation Rhino, a leading reputation management company, struggled with low
search rankings, affecting their online visibility and revenue. Seeking to
improve their website’s overall performance, they engaged NMG, an expert in
SEO, Content Marketing, and Link Building. Our advanced SEO, Content Marketing
techniques, and proven Link-Building Strategies helped them significantly
improve visibility, search engine rankings, and organic traffic. This case
study details our partnership and exceptional results.

Back


SYNOPSIS


2800% Increase in Organic traffic

NMG’s unparalleled SEO and content marketing strategies for Reputation Rhino
made a remarkable impact on their

website traffic; in just two years, they experienced an astounding 2800% rise
in organic search results and gained
400k+ impressions on their website.


RESULTS


2800%
Organic Traffic Increased


4,00,000
Impressions Gained


4000 +
Organic clicks increase


300 +
keywords in Top 10


250 +
keywords in Top 20


SCREENSHOTS


ENGAGEMENT HIGHLIGHTS

NEmploying our expertise in Advanced SEO techniques, we conducted comprehensive
keyword research and devised a highly effective content marketing and
link-building strategy for Reputation Rhino. Our approach focused on creating
SEO-optimized content for new and
existing website pages, complemented by link building to drive relevant and
authoritative links to their domain.

The results of our efforts were remarkable, as we increased their organic
traffic by an astounding 2800%. In addition, through our data-driven approach,
we achieved significant improvements in their website's search engine rankings
and overall online visibility.


We performed deep Competitor Research , which covered 100+ critical SEO factors
to identify areas for improvement and enhance their online presence. C
omprehensive SEO research and competitors’ analysis helped us identify the best
strategies for Reputation Rhino’s rapid growth. Competitor analysis also helped
us understand their SEO strategies that improved their website ’s online
performance .


We used comprehensive competitors' research to analyze the content strategy
that helped them grow their website traffic. The analysis provided useful
insights into which content topics resonated with their target audience and how
to optimize keywords for higher search engine rankings. As a result, our
content marketing strategies earned the client relevant and authoritative brand
mentions, which boosted their website’s organic traffic.


Our Link-building content campaigns for Reputation Rhino garnered media
mentions from top publishers - Moz, Entrepreneur, Social Media Today, Business
to Community, Small Business Trends, Tech Times, and more.


SEO STRATEGY

Reputation Rhino , a leading reputation management company, was facing a
significant challenge despite delivering exceptional services . T heir low
search engine rankings led to declining online visibility, traffic, and revenue.
The original site, reputationrhino.com, had significant site health problems
and had flatlined at 200 visitors/month for years , despite continued efforts.

With an aim to increase the website’s search rankings and traffic, NMG began
with in-depth competitors’ research and the website’s technical SEO audit. This
revealed critical issues with their technical SEO and content strategy.
Therefore, after analyzing the ir industry competitors' content and SEO
strategie s, NMG created a data-driven SEO and Content Marketing strategy for
Reputation Rhino . Our strategies included advanced processes like Master
keyword research, Technical SEO, On-Page SEO , and Link building processes . To
boost the website traffic, we created SEO - based content briefs that included
all the keywords and sub-topics needed to be targeted to rank higher.


Our SEO campaigns beg a n with an Advanced SEO audit and Competitor Research .
The website’s Technical SEO A udit help ed us identify all the gaps and issues
present in the client's current SEO and c ontent strategy . Competitors’
research helped us gain insights into their SEO and content strategies ,
helping them attract traffic to their websites and rank higher in search resu l
ts .


We optimized the header, page title, meta description, and image SEO for
On-page optimization and conducted an SEO Checklist encompassing over 100
crucial on-page SEO factors.


We optimized the structured data on the website by implementing schema tags
such as Product Schema, Breadcrumb Schema, and FAQs Schema, which allowed us to
occupy more space on the Google SERP.


Because reputationrhino.com had a long and checkered history, the link-building
profile needed improvements . Old links that could be considered unnatural or
spammy were removed .


With o ur Master Keyword Research and Low Hanging Fruit processes , we created
a content plan for improving keyword ranking from the bottom of the first page
to the top of the first page , which help ed develop and upgrade existing and
new content by user intent and subject.


We also upgraded content for existing pages to meet the high standards for
“Your Money Your Life” (YMYL) search queries , for which Google stipulates
substantially higher standard s for quality.


ON-SITE SEO PROBLEMS

To start the on-site SEO process, we conducted a website audit to identify and
fix all the website errors. During the audit, we focused on addressing the most
critical elements and prioritized them accordingly. This approach effectively
eliminated any potential threats to the website's search engine performance and
laid a strong foundation for a successful SEO and Content campaign .

PROBLEM 1 – META TITLES AND META DESCRIPTIONS ARE NOT OPTIMIZED
Meta Titles were not optimized, and Meta Descriptions were missing on all the
website pages, affecting its ranking in SERPs.

Before – Our initial analysis discovered that the Meta Titles were not properly
optimized and that the Meta Descriptions were absent from most website pages.

After – Through extensive keyword research, we optimized the meta titles and
descriptions with targeted keywords that enhanced the website's search engine
visibility, increased click-through rates, and drove more traffic.

PROBLEM 2 – SCHEMA MARKUP TAGS WERE MISSING

Before – Our analysis revealed that the website was missing essential schema
markup codes, including those for organization, breadcrumbs, FAQs, etc. This
was negatively impacting the website's search engine visibility.

After – We incorporated the required schema markup codes throughout all pages
to boost the website's search engine visibility and improve the user
experience. By doing so, the website gained greater visibility on search engine
results pages, as the schema markup codes supplied search engines with critical
details about the website's content and layout.

PROBLEM 3 – BREADCRUMB IS MISSING

Before – Breadcrumb was missing on the website, which was affecting the
website’s visibility and search rankings. Therefore, we implemented breadcrumb
on the entire site and also implemented breadcrumb schema code.

After – NMG implemented breadcrumbs across the website while implementing
schema code to enhance the overall site health.

PROBLEM 4 – LACK OF SEO-BASED CONTENT

Before – The website lacked SEO-based content that could increase its
visibility, ranking, and traffic. In addition, the existing content on the
website did not have targeted keywords that were affecting its performance on
Google SERPs.

After – After a detailed competitors analysis , SEO audit , and Master K eyword
R esearch, we created a content strategy for Reputation Rhino. We created
well-researched and data-driven content briefs for different types of content
that included primary / secondary keywords , competitors’ URLs, and sub-topics
that must be targeted to rank high. Our data-driven and SEO-based content
marketing strategy helped us increase the website’s ranking by 2800%.


OFF-SITE SEO PROBLEMS

The off-site process, meaning external linking, is a relevant complement to the
on-site activities. Therefore, f rom the outset,
we do our best and use valuable websites to create a strong link profile. 

BACKLINK PROFILE GROWTH


VERTICAL/INDUSTRY INSIGHTS

To outrank their competition in organic search, this client had one goal: build
their presence on Google. 


The online reputation management industry must understand and comply with YMYL
(Your Money Your Life) regulations and standards. As an online reputation
management service provider, one must be transparent about their services,
provide accurate information, and ensure their content is up-to-date, reliable,
and free from harmful misinformation.


In the final stages of our content marketing campaigns, we went a step further
to help the client deal with revenge porn removal that was a threat to their
website and was not supporting the YMYL standards .


As per the YMYL standards, online reputation management service providers must
adhere to ethical practices and maintain the privacy and security of their
client ’s personal information. By doing this, they can maintain their
credibility and reputation.


Todd William


Founder


( Reputation Rhino)


“I cannot speak highly enough of NMG, the digital marketing company that helped
take my business to new heights. From Search Engine Optimization and Link
Building to Data-driven Content Briefs and Website Maintenance, NMG provided a
comprehensive suite of services that ensured my brand reached the right
audience at the right time. They were always available to answer my questions
and provided regular updates on the progress of my campaigns, which gave me the
confidence to trust in their ability to deliver.”

OUR CLIENTS


NMG is used by 300+ businesses and brands

We’re full service which means we’ve got you covered on digital marketing ,
advanced seo , design , development and content right through to growth

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------