Skip to content

Search


Cross-Platform Web
Design Company

Boost conversions via a mobile-first, responsive web design across all devices

    • SERVICES
    • User Interface Design
    • Web Design
Services


Responsive Web Design Services For Greater Impact.

As a leading Cross-Platform Web Design Company, we specialize in creating
stunning websites with high-impact design elements and great UI that seamlessly
adapt to any device. NMG’s In-house team of talented UI designers has an
in-depth comprehension of the user journey & conversion points at each stage
which we utilize to prepare our style tiles, priority guides & wireframes. Get
your web design upgrade today!


Our Offerings as a Web Design Agency.

We build sleek and intuitive designs that cater to your unique website design
needs. Avail our expertise to have a visually engaging web design that stands
out.

Custom Web Design
We craft captivating designs that attract attention and leave a lasting
impression. Every business is unique and our custom websites reflect that,
showcasing your distinct brand identity through a carefully curated color
palette and artful use of design elements.
WordPress Web Design
We create visually appealing, responsive websites with user-friendly interfaces
powered by WordPress, a powerful platform that offers various themes, plugins,
and customization options. With our expert WordPress website design services,
we build compelling websites having robust features that users love.
Ecommerce Web Design
We design robust & responsive e-commerce sites that follow a visual hierarchy,
establish trust and deliver a pleasant online shopping experience. Our
ecommerce website design services include deploying an interactive user
interface and ensuring frictionless site navigation that boosts conversions &
drives sales.
Website Redesign Services
Our website redesigning services include upgrading your website design &
optimizing it for user-friendliness & functionality. With a fresh web design
and better UI/UX, your business website becomes impactful and invites greater
conversions.
B2B Web Design Services
Our expertise in B2B dynamics enables us to create professional web designs
that generate leads for various businesses in the B2B domain. We design
websites with an intuitive layout, optimized for mobile that encourages users
to take action.


Website Design Services for Various Industries.

With specialized website design services, NMG Technologies offers bespoke web
design solutions that cater to the unique needs of specific industries.

    • Healthcare & Medical
    • Fintech
    • Edtech
    • Travel and Hospitality
    • Real Estate
    • Logistics and Automotive
NMG Technologies provides global healthcare businesses with expert web design
services by creating aesthetically pleasing, user-centric websites that deliver
a great UX.
We help healthcare enterprises transform by building for them a thriving online
marketplace that drives conversions. This encompasses web designing for online
pharmacies, telemedicine platforms, patient portals, medical equipment
suppliers and more.
Our website design company builds secure, user-friendly interfaces for fintech
platforms that boost trust and engagement, ensuring users have a seamless and
reliable experience in managing their finances.
Avail of custom Fintech web design services to get innovative and engaging
Fintech interfaces created that are visually stunning and functionally superior.
We design engaging and interactive educational platforms that enhance learning,
boost student involvement and ensure a dynamic and captivating educational
experience for all.
Partner with us and get interactive edtech solutions developed in Magento. We
deliver robust systems that cater to the unique needs of the edtech startup or
giant with seamless navigation, personalized dashboards and platform
integration with Learning Management Systems (LMS).
We set up stunning, user-friendly websites for travel and hospitality
businesses and help them attract customers with visually captivating web
experiences.
Our custom web design services include payment system integration, interactive
scheduling, responsive design and more. This enables our clients in the
hospitality industry to deliver the best online experience to the target
audience.
We create dynamic, visually stunning websites to showcase properties and boost
real estate transactions.
We transform online browsing into captivating buyer experiences with
user-friendly property listing portals, custom CRMs, and immersive web designs
with an effective UI/UX.
Our team of innovative designers creates powerful websites for the logistics
and automotive sectors to enhance operational efficiency and deliver intuitive
UX and mobile-responsive solutions.
Our user-friendly designs boost functionality and utilize modern aesthetics
that captivate and engage your audience.
Technology Stack


Our core technologies to design intuitive navigation and a visually engaging
interface that captivates users include:

    • Front-end
    • Back-End
    • Databases
    • Design Tools
    • HTML
      Going beyond themes and templates, HTML lets us customize structure and
      content and gives complete control.
    • CSS
      We develop the visual style & aesthetics of web portals & apps using CSS
      and render a compelling design.
    • JQuery
      The language for front-end development we utilize to build web portalsin
      real-time.
    • React.js
      A popular library we use to build web portal user interfaces.
    • Angular.JS
      A powerful framework for building dynamic and complex web portal
      applications.
    • Python (with frameworks like Django or Flask)
      A versatile language known for its readability and extensive libraries.
    • Node.js (with frameworks like Express.js)
      A JavaScript runtime environment that enables server-side JavaScript
      development.
    • Java (with frameworks like Spring)
      A robust and widely-used language for enterprise-level applications.
    • PHP
      A popular language for web development, often used with frameworks like
      Laravel or Symfony.
    • .NET (with frameworks like ASP.NET Core)
      A powerful framework developed by Microsoft, known for its performance
      and security.
    • MySQL
      A widely used open-source relational database system.
    • PostgreSQL
      A powerful and feature-rich open-source relational database.
    • MongoDB
      A popular document-oriented database, offering flexibility and
      scalability for handling unstructured data.
    • Cassandra
      A highly scalable and distributed NoSQL database, designed for handling
      large-volume data.
    • Figma
      A popular vector graphics editor and prototyping tool for UI/UX design.
    • Adobe XD
      A vector-based design tool for UX/UI and prototyping.
    • Sketch
      A popular vector graphics editor primarily used for interface design.
    • InVision
      A prototyping, collaboration and workflow platform.


Hire Our Top Class Web Designers.

At NMG Technologies, we specialize in crafting immersive digital experiences
and bespoke solutions, tailored to your industry-specific needs. Our team of
inventive designers leverages data-driven insights to guide every design
choice. We utilize the latest design principles and tools to create visually
stunning and user-friendly websites that captivate the audience and drive
results.

Be it designing web pages from scratch or revamping your current website, our
web design agency prioritizes a good UX at every stage and in every project,
ensuring intuitive navigation, seamless interactions and an engaging interface
to deliver cutting-edge, innovative web solutions that perfectly reflect your
brand.

Book an Appointment
Our Process


Our Website Designing Process.

Explore our comprehensive, step-by-step Web Design Process designed to deliver
exceptional results for your organization:

    • 01
      Initial Consultation
      We engage in in-depth discussions to grasp your industry-specific needs
      and define how to best utilize our web design capabilities for you.
    • 02
      Defining Scope of Work
      We outline the scope, features, functionalities, and technical
      specifications to brainstorm and create Project Management & Monitoring
      plans.
    • 03
      Design & Prototyping
      User interface (UI) and user experience (UX) designs are created and
      wireframes and prototypes are developed in this stage.
    • 04
      Development & Integration.
      We implement the best design practices to build a high-performance,
      feature-rich and visually appealing web design that delivers an
      exceptional UX.
    • 05
      Testing & Quality Assurance.
      We conduct rigorous testing across devices and browsers to eliminate bugs
      and ensure seamless functioning.
    • 06
      Deployment & Training
      We launch the website and make the new web page design live. Our
      designers also ensure its smooth operation.
    • 07
      Maintenance & Support
      We provide ongoing support, updates, and maintenance to ensure optimal
      website performance.


Why are we the Top Web Design Company?

We are a team of creative designers who consistently push the boundaries of
creativity. We don’t just build websites; we craft digital experiences that
create impact. Offering a unique blend of creativity, technical expertise and
an in-depth comprehension of user behavior, we create web experiences that set
your business apart from the competition.

    • Proven Track Record
      More than 83% of our clients experience revenue growth with our designs.
    • Expert Team
      Our in-house UI/UX experts excel in addressing complex business needs and
      delivering engaging UX that drives conversions.
    • Cross-Platform Compatibility
      Cross-Platform Compatibility
    • Customer-Centric Approach
      We provide dynamic collaboration with real-time feedback, enhancing
      teamwork and productivity.
client speak


Your Journey, Our Expertise:
Results-Driven Successful Partnerships

"NMG is my sigh of relief. Finding an SEO agency, you can trust to create
data-driven, Advanced SEO and Content Marketing strategies while staying
focused on your unique business and achieving the desired results is rare. The
personal attention they give to our projects and their ownership over the
results help us fulfill our mission to enable every person on Earth to travel
freely."
Mohak Nahta
CEO and Founder, Atlys Inc
“If you are looking for a company that truly cares about your business and your
success, look no further than NMG. Their team is knowledgeable, trustworthy,
and committed to delivering results that exceed expectations.”
Mihir Trivedi
Head of Marketing
“NMG Technologies provided a detailed specification document and appropriate
software solutions from the outset, delivering results very close to the
original proposal. The team was available to discuss issues, replied promptly
to emails, and provided constant updates.”

Sai Karan Vedulla
London & Partners,
VP & Chief Representative

"What set NMG apart from other companies was their experience in managing
complex programs and their strategic insights in the B2B segment. They did an
excellent job throughout the whole project and provided a level of assurance
and comfort in their abilities that others could not match"

Steve Delvecchia
VP Digital Engagement,
Resources Connection Inc.
(NASDAQ Listed)

Our Awards


Recognitions & Awards.

Our Process


Our Blogs.

We guide you from concept to launch of your successful Magento online store.
Our iterative Magento development process focuses on collaboration and
flexibility.


Never Miss a Goal with Koora Break!

Developed by NMG Technologies, Experience Football Like Never Before with Saudi
Arabia's Award-Winning Soccer App.

February 23, 2024

Read More


NMG Technologies to Participate in Mobile Word Capital Barcelona – the world’s
largest and most influential connectivity event

NMG Technologies to Participate in Mobile Word Capital Barcelona – the world’s
largest and most influential connectivity event

February 16, 2024

Read More


NMG Technologies Participated in Softwave 2023, The Republic of Korea Software
Exhibition

NMG Technologies Participated in Softwave 2023, The Republic of Korea Software
Exhibition

November 29, 2023

Read More
Support


FAQ’s.


How much does a typical website design cost?

The website design cost depends on the scope of work in the project. It depends
on the number of pages, website type and features and services you require.


What do web design services include?

Our small business Web design services include custom responsive website
designing, ecommerce web design, UX/UI designing, graphic/logo design, website
redesign and more.


Does web design need coding?

Yes, web design involves coding to ensure the website is functional and
responsive.


What are web design services?

Web design services cover the development, designing, deployment and
maintenance of websites. It also includes layout design, content production,
assistance with domain and web hosting, video embedding and linking, graphic
design and more.


What are the golden rules of web designing?

Easy navigation, simplicity and consistency in design, visual hierarchy, and
responsiveness are the golden rules of web designing.


What is Web Design Rule of Three?

The web design rule of three or thirds breaks up the design into three
evenly-spaced rows and columns to make nine equal boxes that fit over the
image. The four crucial points where grid lines intersect are the areas where
attention naturally goes. Following the rule of thirds, designers create
scannable web designs.