Skip to content

Search


Disclaimer


FRAUD RECRUITMENT OFFERS/ PAID REVIEW JOBS/ ILLEGAL USAGE OF NAME OF M/S. NEW
MEDIA GURU INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED

General Public is hereby informed that some unscrupulous persons are
unauthorizedly using the name and logo of M/s. New Media Guru India Pvt. Ltd./
NMG Technologies (“NMG”) including the domain name (NMGTECHNOLOGIES.COM) and
posing themselves as employees, representatives, agents of M/s. New Media Guru
India Pvt. Ltd. and its associated/group companies, with ulterior motive to
earn wrongful gain and/or cheat the prospective job seekers and students and
are fraudulently offering jobs online through WhatsApp, Telegram, LinkedIn and
other websites by representing themselves as the HR and Receptionist of M/s.
New Media Guru India Pvt. Ltd. and issuing fake offer letters. It has also came
to our knowledge that they are also demanding money from the prospective job
seekers and sending them links to pay the money for the job with M/s. NMG
Technologies. Please Note, that M/s. New Media Guru India Pvt. Ltd.
(NMGTechnologies.com) is lawfully and peacefully carrying on its business and
has developed a procedure for hiring employees through in house HR Department
and has never outsourced the same to any third party at any point of time. Also
M/s. New Media Guru India Pvt. Ltd. does not ask, solicit and accept any money
in any form from the candidates, job applicants or potential job seekers at any
point of time. We do not provide the review work and do not pay any money for
doing any review work. If anyone receives any unauthorized, suspicious or
fraudulent offers or interview call or work related to review of any aspect, do
not fall trap for the same and please write an email us at
info"at"nmgtechnologies"dot"com so that we can take appropriate legal action on
the same.

In case, still, any one deals with such persons or pays any amount to them/
link/ join any group on any number or link, We shall not be liable and
responsible for the same.


NOTE: We have registered a Complaint no. 13227108072400011 Dated 22-01-2024 in
Cyber Crime Department, Gurugram, Haryana, INDIA.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------