Skip to content

Search


Transparent Development Empowering
You with Clarity !

NMG goes beyond typical outsourcing. Unlike others, we actually immerse
ourselves in your
business—understanding your operations, customers, and vendors—to craft
high-end software solutions that drive growth and reach. Our process combines
meticulous planning with the flexibility to adapt to your evolving needs.

    • COMPANY
    • Process


SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT LIFECYCLE PROCESS

Our process is focused on providing transparency in production and flexibility
in engagement models that matches your operations. This two way support and
interaction helps us build customer-driven, relevant and innovative software
that adds value at every stage in your customer's journey.


DEVELOPMENT METHODOLOGY

NMG's agile development process, enhanced with scrum, prioritizes rapid and
continuous delivery of working software. Our personalized approach, with
dedicated Account and Project Managers, ensures seamless coordination and
welcomes change requests—even late in development—to maximize your competitive
edge.


Dedicated Team Setups

Build your team of relevant, dedicated resources who work as an extension of
your business- 5 days a week, 8 hours a day.


Time & Material Setup

Hourly or monthly team setup options with a wide range of skill sets - working
with initial specs and evolving as a result of deliverables.


Fixed Cost Model

With a clearly defined scope, project plan and a fixed cost, your project is
built under our expert team with our feedback-oriented process methodology.


PROJECT MANAGEMENT

End-to-End Project Collaboration: We manage every aspect of your project, from
initial setup and planning to ongoing communication, team management, and final
delivery.

Project discussions on Audio/Video calls with the team for faster understanding
& implementation.

Quality assurance, unit testing, and quick response time for timely deliveries.

Launch strategy, After-launch support and marketing roadmap defined.


COMMUNICATION PROCESS

Instant Communication, Seamless Collaboration: In the past, communication with
offshore teams meant painfully waiting of time zones to match, slow chat
conversation or broken voice calls leading to uninformed or miscommunicated
loops of approvals and feedback. Not anymore!

NMG’s powerful platform connects you directly with our team, ensuring complete
transparency, clear communication and faster project progress.


FEEDBACK PROCESS


Design Feedback

Add comments to your design with a click of a button and interact with the
designer directly — no previous conversation syncing required.


Preview your prototypes, complete with transitions on desktops, iOS and Android
devices, then share your fast feedback directly from the pages.


Development Feedback

Share feedbacks on live screen shares

Maintain a task list with all feedbacks along with status, team member and
delivery dates – all conversations synced in a single dashboard


User Experience

Fine tune the optimal experience you want to give to your end user


Content

Create engaging content for every section of your pages


Conversion Optimization

Explore possibilities of further making your conversion action shorter


A/B Testing

Create A/B testing strategy using your prototype


Call To Actions

Design conversion optimized call to actions


Marketing

Setup automation and remarketing strategy


LAUNCH & UPGRADE PROCESS

Build a software development road map for phases of development based on market
research and budgets

Create action plan for upgrade based on the initial launch results

Create initial marketing strategy for SEO, Social Media and Blogging to capture
user data from all sources.

After launch support – design, development & testing

Begin upgrade and maintenance work on time and material basis

Create a full fledged paid marketing strategy for your product

Setup analytics, re-marketing & automation tools to test and measure results –
NMG can suggest you the right tools for tracking and setting up your product
for conversion success – right from the start