Events


Monthly Industry Roundup: December, 2013

Industry roundup for December, 2013 by New Media Guru (NMG). News on Web
development & design, search, SEO, content, Analytics and much more.

Nishtha
Jan 5, 2014
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 0 minutes

NEW MEDIA GURU (NMG) has been selected by NASSCOM for their Orbit Shift program
for fast growing organizations. Managing Directors of New Media Guru, Mohit
Maheshwari and Rohit Maheshwari lately participated in the NASSCOM’s Seminar, a
part of the selection criteria for the Orbit Shift Program. NASSCOM’s The Orbit
Shift Program is an endeavor to provide a platform to aid businesses either at
inflection point or keen of expansion or held up in a stagnant state bring
about an essential shift in their operations.


WHAT’S HAPPENING IN ECOMMERCE?

Magento Community Edition 1.8.1.0 is here! This latest release includes many
contributions from the Magento developer community and empowers merchants to
operate their online stores more easily and efficiently by delivering
significant tax calculation updates, functional improvements, and security
enhancements and much more! Check out the release notes.

2013 has been a busy year for ecommerce! Here’s a compiled list of most
significant trends in ecommerce this year. Also, check out if online retailers
finally gotten to grips with mobile commerce?


WHAT’S HAPPENING IN .NET DEVELOPMENT?

The latest Windows Azure release allows you to schedule jobs that invoke HTTP/S
endpoints or post messages to a storage queue on any schedule you define. Using
the Scheduler, you can create jobs that reliably call services either inside or
outside of Windows Azure and run those jobs immediately, on a regular schedule,
or set them to run at a future date. Scott Guthrie (builds a few products for
Microsoft) released another massive set of enhancements to Windows Azure. The
capabilities include New Scheduler Service, Read-Access Geo Redundant Storage,
and Monitoring Updates. All of these improvements are now available to use
immediately. Learn more about the capabilities in detail at ScottGu’s blog.

Check out some recent updates-

New Features of Visual Studio 2013
POP Forums v12 posted, for MVC 5


WHAT’S HAPPENING IN CREATIVE?

Exo, an elegant, contemporary geometric sans serif typeface, created by
Portuguese graphic and type designer Natanael Gama is now completely redrawn
and published as Exo 2, with a more organic look that will perform much better
at small text sizes and in long texts. Exo 2.0 has been released under the SIL
Open Font License 1.1. Read more!


WHAT’S HAPPENING IN SEARCH?

ComScore reported holiday season U.S. retail e-commerce spending from desktop
computers for the first 52 days of the November-December 2013 holiday season,
showing that $42.8 billion has been spent online from desktop devices, an
increase of 10 percent vs. year ago. The clear winner this year was Cyber
Monday, according to ComScore, followed by Green Monday and Black Friday. Check
the full report!

Engagement Ads on the Google Display Network let advertisers connect with
consumers across the web with visually rich, immersive experiences – and
advertisers only pay when someone chooses to engage with their ad.


WHAT’S HAPPENING IN MOBILE?

Google has released the iOS version of My Glass, the companion app that serves
as a sort of control panel for Google Glass. The app appeared briefly in the
App Store earlier this week, but that was a premature release and Google
removed it quickly. MyGlass for iOS offers mostly similar functionality to the
Android version: Glass setup, turn-by-turn directions, contact and app
management, and the ability to screen cast the Glass display on the iOS device.
Read the full coverage!

ComScore, Inc., a leader in measuring the digital world, released data from
ComScore MobiLens and Mobile Metrix, reporting key trends in the U.S.
Smartphone industry for October 2013. Apple remains the top individual
Smartphone OEM; however Samsung has continued to gain and now controls 25.4
percent of the market. Read more!


WHAT’S HAPPENING IN SEO?

Google launches improved public URL removal tool to make it easier to request
updates based on changes on other people’s websites. The company says was
specifically designed to improve the ability to remove third-party content from
its search engine. Read the official announcement!

Matt Cutts, head of search spam at Google, has confirmed that Google has
applied a 15% reduction in the amount of rich snippets displayed in the search
results. Know more!

Now, you can use the expanded Crawl Errors feature in Webmaster Tools to help
identify pages on your sites that show these types of problems. Google
webmaster central introduces a new Smartphone errors tab where they share pages
identified with errors only found with Googlebot for Smartphones. Read more!

Guest blogging abuse – Now, if you are guest blogging, Matt Cutts offered
four-points on what you should not do-

    • Don’t make guest blogging your only link building strategy
    • Don’t send out thousands of mass emails offering to guest blog to random
      sites
    • Don’t use the same guest article on two different sites
    • Don’t take one article and spin it many times


WHAT’S HAPPENING IN VIDEO MARKETING?

As per Wall Street Journal report that Facebook will begin showing video ads in
the News Feed — on both desktop and mobile devices. Although, the rumors are a
year old, Facebook has officially announced the ad test that allows advertisers
to purchase clips that will auto-play (without sound) directly in your feed. If
you like what you see, you’ll have the option to click and view high quality
videos with sound. Click for details!


WHAT’S HAPPENING IN SOCIAL?

Twitter-

Twitter announces the release of a new product that enables the advertisers to
reach their audiences based on their internet browsing activity. The campaign
is known as ‘tailored audiences’ and Twitter has collaborated with AdRoll,
BlueKai, Quantcast, ValueClick and others to achieve this. According to
Twitter, early tests have shown 195% higher conversion rates with tailored
audiences. Check out the official announcement!

+Post ads-

Similar to Facebook’s Promoted Posts or LinkedIn’s Sponsored Updates, Google
launches its paid content amplification product called +Post ads. These posts
or ads will be like regular Google plus posts, but will appear on the entire
Google Display Network. There will be some key differentiators that will make
+Post ads different from any Facebook or Linked In posts. And to avail this,
you must have a Google AdWords account, be under an NDA with Google and sign
the +Post Ads beta agreement, along with having 1000 followers on Google+.
Learn More!

Instagram-

What is new? It is “Direct”, Instagram’s new Direct message feature that allows
the users to interchange photos and videos one on one or to specific users or
groups rather sharing publicly. Know more!

Facebook-

Facebook now to focus more on high quality content from news sites and other
sources and less on memes from external sites. Check out the recent Facebook
Algorithm update!


WHAT’S HAPPENING IN ANALYTICS?

Now, Google analytics are something more than just measuring the number of
website visitors. Google’s Universal Analytics includes new JavaScript tracking
code for websites and new mobile SDKs. But Universal Analytics is a lot more
than that – it also gives the Measurement Protocol, which allows users to send
data to Google Analytics without the need to use the tracking code or SDKs.
Check out how a company measured the team’s movement into Google Analytics with
the help of an Xbox Kinect, movement recognition software, and of course the
Measurement Protocol. Watch video!

Here’s a great share, basically a case study, that has some important lessons
for you if you work on an e-commerce site. Check out what is Product Page
Roulette?

Google Analytics’ Behavioral Flow Report can aid you in better marketing in
2014. You can isolate pages, or sources, or even keywords, and analyze how
visitors behave once they land on our website. Check out how?

Google announced the launch of a new feature called Content Grouping to help
users analyze the performance of product and content categories. It will be an
easier way to look at aggregated data, as claimed by Google.


WHAT’S HAPPENING IN CONTENT?

Now, Blogging to be done via GOOGLE GLASS! There’s a new WordPress plugin that
makes it possible to shoot photos and video on Google Glass and publish them
almost immediately to a self-hosted WordPress blog. It’s called wpForGlass, and
it’s an open-source project from the PR agency Weber Shandwick. Know more in
detail!

Recently, Matt Cutts, Google’s head of search spam, has publicized a video that
Google doesn’t treat duplicate content as spam. In fact, 25% to 30% of the
content on the web is duplicative. Google takes all the duplicates and groups
them into a cluster. Then Google will show the best of the results in that
cluster. Check out for more!

The upcoming trends in the content industry in 2014 are no more a secret. Take
a look-

    • Competition to gain consumers’ attention will increase
    • Determining the key metrics to measure content’s success will be more
      important
    • Increased interest in content integration (content will be produced for
      multiple channels)
    • Experimentation with content in new mediums

Why ignoring Google+ any longer in 2014 is to risk online irrelevance? Check
out the three reasons expert Jeff Korhan has to give!

Upcoming – Industry Roundup, January, 2014

Events


Similar posts

Mobile


8 Reasons to choose Android Application Development over iOS

In this modern era where there are many mobile operating systems, this artilce
will tell you 8 reasons to choose Android Application Development.

Nishtha Feb 29, 2020
Technology


Advantages of building your App in .Net Technology

Asp .net is the perfect platform for creating high-end applications. Let's take
a look at the key reasons of using .NET technology in developing...

Nishtha Oct 6, 2017
Web


PHP and Open Source

NEW MEDIA GURU (NMG) has a dedicated Open Source competency center (OSCC) .
Open source is the platform of choice for digital agencies around the...

Nishtha Aug 26, 2011


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.