Skip to content

Search


How NMG Boosted Fusion Firearms Organic Traffic by 135% and 2x E-Commerce
Revenue in Just 10 Months

NMG helped Fusion Firearms increase organic traffic by 135%, resulting in over
18,000 monthly visitors. The ecommerce revenue grew by 88.15% organically,
resulting in a 2X revenue growth within just 6 months. The ecommerce site
gained 1.5M+ impressions and 100K+ organic clicks, showcasing the effectiveness
of NMG's strategies. NMG's master keyword research and Advanced Search Engine
Optimization (SEO) efforts helped rank over 800 top 3 and 1,500 top 20.


SYNOPSIS


888.15% Increase in eCommerce Revenue

NMG’s Advanced Search Engine Optimization (SEO) and Content Marketing
strategies for Fusion Firearms led to an exponential
growth of 135% in the website ’s organic traffic and an 88.15 % increase in
their sales revenue within 6 months .
They also gained 1.5 million + impression s on their website.


RESULTS


135%
Increase in Organic Traffic


88%
Organic Revenue


1.5 million +
Impressions Gained


1,00,000 +
Organic Clicks


800 +
Keywords in Top 3


CAMPAIGN RESULTS


ENGAGEMENT HIGHLIGHTS


The comprehensive SEO competitor analysis helped identify their competitors'
best SEO tactics and strategies for organic traffic. The analysis also provided
us with valuable insights into which content topics resonated with their target
audience and how to optimize keywords for search engine ranking, based on which
we created hundreds of well-researched content outlines for various industry
topics.


Factual, comprehensive, and fully sourced/cited content was developed for
Fusion Firearms to meet the high standards for “Your Money or Your Life” (YMYL)
search queries, for which Google stipulates substantially higher standards for
quality.


Significant “E-A-T” (Expertise, Authoritativeness, and Trust) improvements were
made to the website by adding information about the different types of firearms
offered by Fusion Firearms. We also added a comprehensive “About” page with a
clearly stated mission and details about the company.


SEO STRATEGY

For Fusion Firearms, w e began with a thorough competitor research and
technical SEO audit, which revealed critical issues with their
website's structure, search engine optimization, and content strategies .

We created an effective strategy that included technical SEO tactics and
content marketing to address these issues and enhance the website's health.
We also focused on website maintenance and created new pages to target and
showcase all the firearms and their parts offered by them.


We began our SEO campaigns with a thorough SEO audit and advanced competitor
research that helped us identify all the issues with the website and their
current SEO strategy. To optimize on-page elements, we addressed the header,
page title, meta description, and image SEO. Additionally, we meticulously
checked over 100+ critical on-page SEO factors using an SEO checklist.


We created and optimized structured data and implemented schema tags using
Product Schema, Breadcrumb Schema and FAQs Schema to capture more real estate
on Google SERP.


Based on deep keyword analysis, competitor analysis, and SEO research, we
created a tailor-made content marketing strategy for Fusion Firearms. We made
hundreds of SEO research-based content outlines for different types of topics
and content styles that helped us improve their website traffic by 135% and
increase their sales revenue by 88.15% in 6 months.


ON-SITE SEO

PROBLEM 1 – POOR WEBSITE STRUCTURE AND NAVIGATION

Before – NMG identified issues with the website's structure and navigation,
making it difficult for users and search engines to find and access relevant
content.

After – We worked to improve the site's hierarchy and internal linking
structure to create a more intuitive and user-friendly experience.

PROBLEM 2 – LACK OF OPTIMIZED CONTENT

NMG identified pages with thin or duplicate content throughout the website that
was affecting its organic growth and sales revenue.

Before –

After – After a thorough competitor analysis and website audit, NMG created a
content strategy for Fusion Firearms to address all content-related issues. As
a result, we created new, high-quality content and optimized existing content
to improve its relevance and value to users and search engines, which increased
their website traffic exponentially.

PROBLEM 3 – META TITLES AND DESCRIPTIONS WERE NOT OPTIMIZED

Before – Meta Titles were not optimized, and Meta Descriptions were missing on
all the website pages, affecting its ranking in SERPs.

After – After thorough keyword research, we created and optimized Meta Titles
and Meta Description with their targeted keywords, which led to significant
website visibility growth and improved search rankings.


VERTICAL/INDUSTRY INSIGHTS


In the firearms industry, understanding and complying with regulations and
safety standards is essential for building customer trust and avoiding legal
issues.


The ecommerce nature of the business requires a strong focus on website
optimization and conversion rate optimization (CRO) to maximize revenue and
profitability.


Developing content that educates and informs customers about different types of
firearms, shooting techniques, and safety practices can help build customer
credibility and trust.


Bob Serva


President and CEO


(Fusion Firearms)


“NMG is the real deal when it comes to eCommerce SEO. We were blown away by
their Advanced SEO strategies that helped increase our sales and revenue. Since
joining forces with NMG, our sales and revenue have skyrocketed, and we
couldn’t be more impressed with the team's expertise, responsiveness, and
unwavering commitment to delivering results. Hands down, the best decision ever
made for our business. Highly recommended!”

OUR CLIENTS


NMG is used by 300+ businesses and brands

We’re full service which means we’ve got you covered on digital marketing ,
advanced seo , design , development and content right through to growth

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------