Skip to content

Search


Trusted By B2B Businesses

More than 300 businesses from fortune 500's to enterprises, representing a
diverse range of businessmodels, use NMG's services and solutions to transform
business into measurable success.

Web

Mobile

Ecommerce

Advanced SEO


    • Atlys Inc.

      TRAVEL

      Advanced SEO and Data Driven Content Strategy delivers rapid results for
      Atlys.


    • Fusion Firearms

      ARMS & AMUNITION

      Take your business to next level with NMG’s innovative digital marketing
      solutions.


    • Sforzo Dillingham

      Healthcare

      Drive traffic and boost conversions with NMG’s advanced SEO tactics.


    • Sunshine Movers

      Packers and Movers
      Digital marketing experts delivering rapid through advanced SEO for
      Sunshine Movers


    • Atmos

      Appliance
      Customized digital solution that maximize ROI and boost conversions


    • Nikon

      Opticals
      Cutting-edge SEO and content strategies that transform your online
      presence


    • Reputation Rhino

      Digital Marketing

      Data-driven marketing solutions that deliver measurable results for
      Reputation Rhino
Client Speak


We are part of our client's journey. Your success is our success.

“ Their level of understanding of our business model really stood out to us. I
often said that they understand our operation better than our own employees do.
They communicate well in writing and on phone calls. They were very responsive
and able to make adjustments and troubleshoot very quickly.”

Brandon Kent
Vice President of Sales and Marketing,
Telemark Diversfied Graphics

“ We chose to work with NMG after interviewing/vetting ten web development
companies from around the world. NMG won our business because of their deep
understanding of .PHP and web design. The team is highly qualified and
talented. The attention to detail is excellent. Choosing to work with NMG has
been one of the best business decisions our company has made in 10+ years.”

Nate Hart
Vice President
Competiscan

“ NMG provided a level of assurance and comfort in their abilities that others
could not match.By consistently delivering high-quality work, NMG Technologies
contributed to an effective and greatly improved website. I praise their
cutting-edge design strategies, thorough research, and willingness to implement
feedback.”

Nayer Radly
Buying Intelligence,
Project Lead

“ NMG Technologies did an excellent job throughout the whole project.They
impressed by developing a thorough strategy and communicating effectively with
the previous developer. They were stepped into an unfinished, poorly executed
project and delivered an outstanding product for launch. Their professionalism,
organization, and timely delivery set them apart.”

Arthur Chileshe
Homabroad,
Founder & CEO

“ The NMG team is not only very hard working but goes above and beyond to
deliver the best possible outcomes.NMG Technologies was professional and
dedicated to delivering high quality results. They offered responsive and
engaged customer service, routinely going above and beyond to rectify any
issues. The team suggested new ideas, gave honest feedback, and became an
invaluable part of the creative process.”

Adam Bronson Nardi
Online Dating Website,
Founder & Director

“ What set NMG apart from other companies was their experience in managing
complex programs. NMG Technologies provided a detailed specification document
and appropriate software solutions from the outset, delivering results very
close to the original proposal. The team was available to discuss issues,
replied promptly to emails, and provided constant updates.”

Sai Karan Vedulla
London & Partners,
VP & Chief Representative

“ NMG's quality of work and methodology were top-notch. They put together a
very well-structured team.NMG delivered an effective, client-focused website
that met all of the original requirements. They also stood out because of their
excellent customer service, responsive daily communication, and reasonable
prices.”

Paul Kinderman
Sappy Gram,
Founder

“ I found them responsible, timely, and diligent. NMG Technologies effectively
managed the development of multiple sites simultaneously, remaining agile and
responsive to day-to-day requirements. They provided open communication and
quickly implemented feedback.”

Alex Tisdale
Educational Startup,
Former CEO

“ They were very flexible and responsive throughout the whole thing. Within
four weeks of going live, the campaign generated qualified interest from over
400 companies. NMG Technologies accomplished the entire project within three
months and under budget. The team provided strategic insights into the B2B
segment and daily updates on nominations.”

Nicholas Passero
Sports Startup,
Founder

“ NMG is very entrepreneurial, and I think that helps a lot when working with a
small company. NMG Technologies provided an exceptionally high-quality product
through an organized, technically skilled approach. The agency showed their
commitment to the project's success by working long hours, involving senior
management in the details, and communicating frequently about deliveries. ”

Steve DelVecchia
Adaptive Professional Solutions (Now RGP),
CEO

OUR CLIENTS


NMG is used by 500+ businesses and brands

We're full service which means we've got you covered on user experience,
design, development, beta testing, maintenance, updates...a long term strategic
partner not a vendor.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------