Skip to content

Search


Frequently Asked Questions

    • RESOURCES
    • FAQ


What is NMG?

NMG is a global full-cycle software development company building advance
websites, software and mobile apps using latest technologies since 2008.


Is NMG a product or a service?

NMG is an outsourcing service company that build custom software development
solutions for businesses across the globe.


I am in a different time zone. How do we manage working together?

We have teams available that work with an overlap of 5 business hours a day. By
scheduling calls and meetings on a prior notice, we can avoid middle of the
night situations. In case of urgent needs or any concerns, our teams are
available within a response time of 2 hours.


I am looking to build something very local and niche for my industry. How does
your developers align with my interests?

NMG by nature, start discussions by first understanding your business and
industry. We do our due research and analysis before we step into project
discussion calls. Understanding your business model, idea, vision and goals is
imperative for our developers. We ask the right questions to help us understand
your interests.


Will you provide documentation?

Yes. Requirements gathering and documentation of scope is our very first step
within the development cycle. For fixed cost projects, our scope is very
clearly defined and an SRS document is prepared at the time of development to
make sure there are no scoop creeps.


I am not sure of a solution or technology I would need. Will you help me?

Absolutely! We are here to discuss all your requirements and based on it, our
experts will suggest you the right solution that fits in your business model
and your budget. You can go for PHP or Asp dotnet technology to build your
custom software or app, or use an existing open source solution. Feel free to
schedule a 1 – on – 1 call with our experts and get free consultation advise on
your project.


Will you design my website?

Yes, we have an in house team of creative and talented designers who will
create right user experiences for your product keeping your branding, vision
and end customer in mind. Check our portfolio of work here.


Since the team will be offshore, How do you ensure quality development?

We use a lot of measures in our processes to ensure high quality development -
project management to manage teams, deliveries, standards and scope, follow
coding standards, frameworks and best practices to build your product and most
importantly we follow strict testing practices at every stage of design and
development to ensure that the end product is high quality.


Do I need a mobile app or just a mobile site?

You might! Schedule your free assessment and get full understanding if you need
a hybrid or a native mobile app or simply a mobile version of your web app.


Will my app be responsive?

Without a doubt! This is our first and foremost priority to make your app work
on all desktop, mobile and tablet browsers. Do remember, that there are certain
applications that need a different mobile site than the one running on the
desktop. Feel free to discuss with us.


What is your web design process?

Below is our 4-step design process

#1 Understanding your business and end customer
This is where our designers will understand your project requirement, business
process and goals to be able to create a flow. By asking the right questions
and 1 – on - 1 calls, she will understand your business, branding, vision and
end customer goals.

#2 Design
We begin by creating workflows and wireframes to include all functionalities
and features intact with the designs. After the flow is approved, we then begin
designing it in PSD and HTML for portotyping

#3 Feedback & Evolution Process
Our very easy to use feedback process is highly efficient and effective to
gather your comments and work on improvement collectively.

#4 Prototyping
Front-end development of the approved screens will be done along with complete
usability testing for responsiveness, browser compatibility, page speed load
time and on page SEO.


What is your design feedback process?

We us tools and processes that make design feedback sharing easy and effective
for our clients, eliminating the need to explain flows through static
wireframes and sitemaps.

Our designers will simply send you an in-browser link where you pin your
comments and collaborate with the designer on real time basis enabling you to
spend less time trying to communicate your vision and more time iterating and
improving the product

    • Send a link to view designs in the browser or on a mobile device
    • Leave comment directly on the design
    • Organize conversations around specific design elements
    • Easily invite other stakeholders to collaborate on your designs


How many design themes will you design?

We will create two design themes for you. At a given time, we will create a
single design theme based on our discussions with you. You can then share your
feedback on the designs. If you do not like the first theme at all, we will
then scrape it and design a new one based on your feedbacks on the last one.


How many rounds of revision do I get?

You get 3 -5 rounds on revisions on each design.


How much will my web development cost?

Each project is unique, hence there is no template cost structure that we can
give you. You can share your project concept with us, and will give you a
personalized estimation.


Can I hire developers for maintenance of my existing software? How do I track
my developer’s performance?

Yes. Our hourly rate starts from US$25 per hour with a minimum commitment of
200 hours. You can hire single developer or a team of developers on a monthly
contract as well. A part time project manager will be assigned on your project
to oversee all development tasks. To track your developers work and
performance, you will be given access to live streaming software, where you can
see the live working of the developer on your screen. Daily timesheets, tasks
reporting, calendar management and collaboration will be included in our
contracts.


Can I interview the developer before I hire him?

Absolutely! We can schedule your call with our developer so you clarify all
your questions and build a relationship.


Why SCRUM?

Because it allows projects to self-organize, provides transparency into project
work, and emphasizes communication from team members. The fact that all
participants follow a framework or process is important to ensure consistency.


Can you set up a designer?

Absolutely. We can set up a designer for 40 hours monthly as part of your
dedicated team.


What is your web development process?

Read here to learn more about intuitive and transparent process


How long will it take to build my website?

This again depends on your requirements, but on a ballpark a custom developed
solution can take anywhere from 3 calendar months to 6 while an open source
solution takes around 2 – 3 calendar months.


Do you provide hosting?

No. We can suggest you the right hosting provider for your application. If you
would need cloud hosting, then we can set up cloud hosting server for you on
Amazon Web Servers as we are Amazon Certified Partners.


Do you provide after launch support?

Yes. We provide 60 day on going support after the launch.


How do you handle payments?

You can pay us via online bank transfer & e-check (US only) and international
bank wire transfer. Payments are divided based on the milestone structure
defined at the time of contract submission.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------