Growth


Top 50 KPIs and Metrics that Matter the Most for your Mobile App

Ready to boost your app usage? Here are 50 critical Mobile App KPIs and Metrics
to improve the performance of your mobile apps. Discover which KPIs are
appropriate!

Nishtha
Nov 20, 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 18 minutes

You’ve built an app which came out to be stunning, both In design and also
visually treating. But you know what, it could miserably fail if you don’t
appreciate the Key Performance Indicators.

So you’ve built an app which came out to be stunning, both In design and also
visually treating.
But you know what, it could miserably fail if you don’t appreciate the Key
Performance Indicators.

You have obviously created an app hoping it would be widely accepted by the
audience you have targeted and the app should serve the purpose, but how would
you know that?

It’s the Key Performance Indicators, which will tell you, what is contributing
to your app’s success and what is not. And where you need to do some rework and
where should you enhance.

Figuring our mobile app’s performance and metrics is a really important aspect
in today’s mobile app development market because as the number of apps
increases the expectations for the app’s performance has relatively increased,
in return demanding a high performance from your
app too.

So, the question is.

How would you determine what’s working for you and what’s not? What measures
would you take to reach your ultimate goal of your app?

It can only start by determining the KPIs and metrics that matter the most for
your mobile.

So how does these Mobile KPIs work?

Understanding the vast range of KPIs and how should they be applied to your app
is not an easy task.

KPIs help you to evaluate your app and therefore attract the attention and
resources of buyers, investors, and shareholders.

Defining unique KPIs means determining what a good performance looks like and
how to capture and measure the various indicators along the way.

Tracking KPIs should be a part of your development and marketing strategies,
including which success metrics and performance metrics are the ones that
should be considered the most valuable or important.

But there is something you need to know, there are almost as many mobile app
metrics as there are apps, which brings you a lot of confusion. It’s your call
to understand what you should be following and what you shouldn’t.

So we wouldn’t be discussing all the KPIs which are available out there, but
there are some KPIs that measure the general performance of a mobile app.

Almost everyone in the mobile app development or marketing should be aware of
these list of KPIs, but it’s your call on which metrics should be considered
for your app.

So here we go!

App downloads

Number of times that an app is being downloaded to a device is probably
something, which obviously needs to be tracked; it shows the popularity of your
app among the masses.

It’s a simple way to determine your app’s popularity, and it also is a
foundation to many other KPIs which we would be discussing.

Installations

Only because a user has downloaded your app doesn’t mean your job is done.
There could be issues with the installation.

I have faced this issue numerous times, despite quick download, the app
struggled to install, which is bad and people don’t really give another chance.

You should also be tracking actual installations on the various devices that
your audience use.

Learn About Importance of Effective UI/UX in Mobile App Development

Uninstallations

Anybody can decide to uninstall an app when they find it not really useful or
does not serve the purpose of the download or some other reason, and while they
do some don’t leave a review or rating or any sort of feedback.

If the uninstallations are related to some sort of update or changes you have
made in the application, you need to know what exactly was the reason for the
uninstall.

Registrations

Deciding whether or not to register is another sign that users are buying what
you’re selling, at least figuratively.

On top of that, you can use their email addresses or other contact info to
market future upgrades and other apps to them.

Subscriptions

If you are offering subscriptions, you need to keep a track of all the
subscriptions, signups and also unsubscribe.

On top of that, you need to keep a track of how long does an average user take
to sign-up or create an account after the installation; it will help you
understand how the users behave and what you could do to make them sign-up
faster.

Glitches and Crashes

Every app has its own glitches and crashes at some point and but the frequency
of these errors is not recommended.

This can be solved before the app is launched and also post-launch. Pre-launch
you need to go through checks during testing and clear all the bugs, 100% bug
proofing is non-existent so minimizing the crashed to the higher extent is
important.

And also customer reviews do help a lot to fix this post-launch. Fixing and
preventing app crashes will help to make the user experience better and
retention rate.

Upgrades

When offering the user to upgrade your app to a premium version, you need to
keep a track of a couple of things.

How long does the user take to upgrade, and what premium packages are the users
more interested in.

And don’t forget to keep a track of how many users are using the free version
and from how long. This is helpful in evaluating your app revenue and find out
which features could be made premium or attractive so that you can convert the
free users to premium users.

Growth rate

You need to track this because it will help you make sure your user base is
growing, but also how it’s really growing.

Growth may differ with the introduction of new schemes or updates or new
features, you need to track what period of the time the app gained more users.

It basically helps you plan your strategy.

Retention rate

Learn About Role Of Wireframes In Mobile App Development


Retention is nothing but gaining your users back who have either uninstalled or
deleted their user accounts. This could only be done when you can know the
reason why they left and improving the areas where the users are expecting.

Higher retention rate, the more positive implications there are for the future
earnings from the app.

App Session

The number of sessions you generate is an important indicator of popularity and
users glued on to your app.

Usually, the more sessions a user creates and that an app receives the better.

Also keep in mind that in digital analytics, a session is defined as a user or
device-specific group of interactions that occur on your website or app within
a given time frame.

So yeah! Defining what a session means for your app or project is essential.

Session also depends upon the type of app, if it’s a business or any financial
app, a user shouldn’t be spending too much time in figuring out things.

Also, don’t forget to calculate the daily active users and monthly active users.

Session Length

Time spent by a user on your app per session is the session length.

In general terms, more time a user spends on the app, the better it is for
every reason an app is created, but you should also take a look at the session
length as it relates to the number of crashes and uninstalls and see if there
is any correlation.

Moreover, you really don’t need the users to stay longer to convert or take a
desired action, and the number of session intervals, AOR, or depth of sessions
may be a more useful KPI to track.

Session interval

The time between each session a user takes, like if he uses the app daily
weekly or monthly. If
the app is used daily then what is the frequency.

In mobile app terms, shorter intervals are usually better, but this KPI can
also be tagged to when there are content updates or other timely events to
tak3e into consideration with your app.

Let’s assume, if there is new content to view every morning then your session
intervals are likely to be 24 hours or so.

If your app isn’t tagged to a particular time of day or event, shorter session
intervals might be more desirable.

Session Depth

Session depths are the number of interactions per session, or how far the user
navigates or explores through the app, before exiting the app.

For example, if the user is on an e-commerce app and browsing through, making a
purchase or just navigating through one section to another will give you an
idea on how you could improve
the content of your app.

Take a note of sessions and try to fix issues if any.

Average pages per session

The number of unique pages or URLs that a user hits during each visit, averaged.

Usually the higher the number, the better for your app, especially if you rely
on advertising for monetization.

More screens are obviously more advertisements and views.

Daily Active Users

Number of active users who use the app every day is the daily active users, the
average
number of daily active users does show you the growth of your app and helps you
in making
changes or taking your app to the next level.

Monthly Active Users

Not every app serves the purpose of daily use, there are some apps which you
won’t really be using on daily basis like Financial apps, and not every user
uses all the apps every day.

Don’t forget that users are generally tracked as unique visitors who may visit
for multiple sessions, so it is important to pay attention to both KPIs.

Social media shares

The number of times your app is recommended or shared on social media.

Obviously, higher the number of shares, better it is for the app. But also look
when and where the app is shared and in what context.

Because you know how social media is, don’t be popular for the wrong reasons.
It is important if you have any social media functionality or integration build
into your app.

Brand Awareness

There are tons of ways to define brand awareness, which also includes how many
times does your brand appears in the search engine results, on various social
networks, or the “reach” of your brand.

It is quite obvious that more users directly implies more awareness of your
brand, and you would obviously have better business results.

But don’t forget to take a note and analyze the diversity of brand mentions
online.
Churn rate

The rate at which active users leave your app in the form of unsubscribing or
uninstalling your app.

Do I need to say that you need to take care of it?

Of course, you would want to turn down the churn rate, and a higher churn rate
is potentially like a ticking time bomb, sort it out!

There could be many reasons for churn rate, either the content is boring or
your app crashes more often or it’s just not so much interesting and serves a
purpose as it used to.

How do you lower the churn rate?

Update your app in every way possible, add new content, fix bugs make your app
faster. Basically, try to get to the roots of the increasing churn rate.

Financial KPIs

The reason you’ve started your business is to grow financially and your app is
just another investment which will help you achieve your goal.

So how do you make profits with your app?

You need to take a note of how your app is and will generate revenue using the
below metrics.

Average revenue per user

So the average amount of value or cash generated per user through in-app
purchases, ad impressions or clicks, subscriptions, paid downloads, or any
other form of monetization. Multiplied by the size of the user base or the
number of active users this figure gives a good rough idea of the value of the
app as a whole.

Lite time Value

How do you calculate this?

It’s nothing but the amount of revenue generated by a single user either by
purchases or subscriptions or any other transaction combined with the average
revenue per user it can be a great way to determine the total perspective or
value of an app.

Time for the first purchase

Time of first purchase is nothing but the time when the user first subscribes
to something or purchases a product through your app, you need to keep a track
of the average first purchase of all the users and try working on making it
shorter.

Upgrade your content and also the app to give the user a better experience.

Purchases

Simple the purchases of your app need to be tracked. This is relatively simple
and obviously necessary number to track if your app involves any kind of
exchange of funds, whether they are in-app purchases, upgrades to a premium
version, subscriptions, or an e-commerce play.

Customer Acquisition cost

The revenue you spend on gaining a new user is the customer acquisition cost,
how do you do that?

Advertising! And advertising involves a lot of things, including the time,
factored in for marketing costs. You can determine this number by averaging the
total gross revenue during a given amount of time by sales and marketing costs
incurred during the same time period.

Cost per Acquisition

Cost per acquisition is the cost it took to make a single user to download the
app.
It doesn’t have to be new users, but actually from a new behavior something
like signing up, upgrading into a premium user or any other upgrade, in-app
purchases, or giving access to new features.

Keeping a track of these gives you an estimation on how to improve the
acquisition.

Customer Lifetime Value

No! this is not the same we have discussed earlier, I am not repeating things.
The lifetime value of a customer based on the net profit they generate
overtime, which in this case is based on their spending in and on the app in
proportions to the cost required for their acquisition.

A user pool with a high average CLV is a tremendous asset for a mobile app, and
don’t forget that successful apps tend to have an excellent CLV to CAC ratios.

Effective customer acquisition cost

Nothing but he effective or actual cost of acquiring new customers, which
includes organic discovery methods, paid to advertise, and time spent or other
expenses incurred during the marketing process.

This can be calculated by comparing the new customers you have gained to the
total number of impressions generated by marketing campaigns and factoring in
the cost of those campaigns to achieve a final number.

Effective cost per mile

Effective cost per mile is nothing but the milestone you have set for yourself
for generating the impressions.

Which includes organic and paid marketing efforts along with the cost of time
spent or any other extra expenses incurred.

How do you calculate this?

By factoring in the number of impressions or views generated by marketing
efforts divided by the number of customers gained.

Paid Conversion rate

In this KPI you would only calculate the rate of conversion through paid
advertising, which includes PPC advertising, display ads, social media
advertising through Facebook or Twitter platforms, sponsored posts or reviews,
or any other method of marketing your mobile app that involves a direct
exchange of money for mentions or views of your mobile app.

Organic conversion rate

This is nothing but the conversion of users through unpaid mediums, such as
organic search engine results, word of mouth mentions on social media or blog
posts, influences, or social media trends, app store listings, or any other way
of marketing your mobile app that does not involve indirect paid to advertise.

Learn About Why Mobile App Fails

Return on Investment

It’s not just the app cost you need to consider but the investment got any
marketing tactics or techniques, calculated by dividing the number of gains in
customers or revenue that you have generated by how much you have spent on
marketing, which includes the time spent or any expenses incurred.

Cost per Install

The cost per install measures your customer acquisition costs for customers
that installed your app when they see an advertisement, the ads you have posted
and not the organic ads.

User Experience KPIs

These KPIs are the most important factors for the growth of your app
post-release, if you are not successful in following these, there is nothing
that could help your app grow.

Using these KPIs and others to track, measure and therefore improve on it might
be the most important activity that you can engage in as a mobile app developer
or marketer.

Loading time

Your app needs to load fast, faster than any app in your competition or at
least try to be faster. The amount of time it takes an app to load from the
initial tap of being ready to use is what we are talking about.

Loading times are proportional to the content in your app, using high-quality
images is most recommended but that doesn’t mean it slows the app, faster app
loading is a priority.

Devices

Another relatively simple KPI to define and track, this is simply which devices
your audience use to access your app.
Depending on your target clients, it is important to know if they usually use
tablets versus smartphones, or Android versus iOS, or any other device.

What does this do? It simply helps you in improving the performance of your app.

Carriers

Just as the devices used to access your app, it is really important to know
which carriers your users tend to prefer, especially If you are targeting a
particular region or a country.

Because different regions and countries have different carriers.

Operating system

Ok, I’m not putting any of my opinions here, it’s not about Android vs iOS, it
doesn’t matter in what platform your app is but it should work well in both.

If there is a high crash or uninstall rate for either one or a strong
preference for the apple or android realms, that is something to consider and
understand why that is the case and remedy any problems that these preferences
may indicate

Screen Dimensions/Resolution

This KPI is related to the devices that your customers use to access your app,
but before you do the updates, you need to consider this KPI.

It could cause flaws like lagging and crashing which will result in uninstalls
and crashes.

Permissions granted

Keep a track of access or permissions each user is allowed to for your app.

The value and importance of this metric depend on how many users are actually
interested in the features you are providing and what features to be added or
removed.

API latency

API latency is the time interval between your API proxies being called or
triggered and their
response or load time.

In general, you would want this number to below.

This KPI is tied to load time and the corresponding user behaviors.

Mobile App Marketing KPIs

We could make a number of KPIs related to marketing your app, but we are only
going to discuss the ones that will help you track your preferred or most
effective methods which are mandatory.

Along with measuring your app’s growths and mentions on social media and blogs
or any other platforms, you should also be reporting on any paid advertising
and monitoring your app store analytics to see what is driving and downloads.

Install Source

The source from where your user came to know about your app or discovered your
app, which made them install, is what you need to know.

It will help you get rid of other sources where you might be paying a lot, like
an ad campaign, which might not be bringing in users compared to other sources.

Alternatively, if you are generating traffic through organic resources, try
improving them for even better results.

Virality and K factor

It’s nothing but your app or name of the app going viral through the mouth to
mouth sources or because of your mobile app marketing.

We have seen many apps going viral for no reason and there are a lot of better
apps in the same category doing badly.

Virality can be measured in a variety of different ways, but one common method
is to calculate the K factor by multiplying the number of mentions in organic
or paid promotions.

However you track Virality, it is important to determine one way of tracking it
from the beginning and sticking with it for the most complete and cohesive
results.

Channel Breakdown

There are obviously different channels you would be providing your users to
access your app, keep a track of all the channels and how is each channel
behaving.

This will help you improve the ones, which do not get you much traffic.

Geometrics

The geographic location of your users may affect in-app purchases and ad
revenue, so it is important to track.

It can also inform your future mobile app marketing campaigns by letting you
know where your app is doing good and where you should be targeting and use
strategies to improve in poorly performing locations.

Demographics

Demographics contains the information of gender, country and also the age group
of the audience who are using your app.

Tracking this will give you a complete idea of your app’s customer base
information; it will help you make your app better for your target audience.

Cohort Analysis

Your user base can likely be grouped in a variety of categories or collectives
based on their demographics and behavior.

Grouping them and taking a note of the patterns in their behavior can be a
valuable learning experience or source of knowledge about your current and
potential customers.

Behavioral Metrics

The way your customers behave which are quite unique to your app can be a
valuable information to analyze.

This KPI can be applied to both how the user has arrived at your app and what
do they expect from your app once it has been installed.

Tracking this will let you create a collection of user profiles and it will
help you develop and introduce new features into your app. You no longer have
to experiment with adding features.

App Store Optimization (ASO)

The most important part of your marketing strategy which will actually bring a
difference in how your app reaches your customers.

Learn About  Our Mobile App Development Services

There is probably no better way to promote your app in an app store.

ASO is the only way by which your app will rank better in an app store.

Keywords

The keywords are the main tools for ranking your app better, this will help
users discover your app.

From your apps name, developers name to the screenshots and descriptions and
also the logo will help you in making your app rank better.

So you need to check on what keywords would work better for you.

Category ranking

Monitoring your ranking over time and studying how they affect your app’s
performance is really important.

Better your performance better your ranking.

Views to installs

Number of times that a user has viewed your app listing before he/she actually
installed it.
Usually, the lower the number of views to install, the better it is for your
app because it shows
that your advertising and app store listing is more effective.

Reviews and ratings

More the positive reviews, better your ranking and downloads of your app.

Apps are relying more on reviews and ratings now, than ever before.

But don’t get disheartened with the low rating and reviews, they are a source
to learn and improve your app and make it better than ever.

Conclusion

Implementing KPIs will only benefit you in making your app better than it can
ever be.

It could be a bit daunting to track all these, but they are all interrelated
and when you actually get started implementing KPIs you would get in with the
flow and your app will do great.

And hey! If you don’t have an app yet, we would love to help you build one.
Contact us!

Request Free Pricing


Frequently Asked Questions


1. What are app metrics?

App metrics are the factors that matter for the success of your app. These need
to be considered on a serious note if you want to make your app successful
across the market. Customer satisfaction, user engagement, acquisition, and app
performance are a few ones that fall in the top category of app metrics.


2. How is mobile app success measured?

The first and one of the most important ways to evaluate the success of an app
is to find out the number of app downloads but make sure you’re also measuring
the contrasted time of an app on users’ devices.


3. What are the metrics that you'll be tracking for better user engagement?

Session length, Active app users, number of downloads, total number of users,
screen flow, time in the app and retention rates are the major metrics that can
help you figure out your app’s engagement in the market.


4. What are engagement metrics?

Engagement metrics is a kind of web analytics that is highly useful in finding
out what is engaging your app users. Using this strategy will help you get to
know what’s winning user’s heart and where your app needs improvement.


5. How do you measure application performance?

Error rates consideration, average response time, user satisfaction, request
rate, count of application instances, application availability, application and
server response time and garbage collection are a few factors that play a
significant role in measuring an application’s performance.


6. How do you measure app success?

The indicators that help measure an app success are number of mobile downloads,
subscription rates, user growth rate, app upgrade rates, daily active users,
active sessions, and churn rate.

Growth


Similar posts

Mobile


7 Best Mobile App Analytics Tools – Which one suits you?

App analytics are the key to understand how your mobile app is performing. We
share 7 Top mobile app analytics tools to help you decide which one to...

Nishtha Mar 25, 2015
Featured


80% of Apps Do Not Survive More Than A Year – Avoid being that 80%

Why do mobile apps fail? There are a lot of mobile apps that don't make it to
the runway. Find out how to make your app successful with a few tips.

Nishtha Nov 13, 2017
Design


Role Of Wireframes In Mobile App Development

Mobile app development is a complicated process. Wireframing should be the
first step in it. Here's a complete guide for the mobile app wireframe in...

Nishtha Nov 8, 2017


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.