Growth


Steps To Create Engaging Content For Mobile App

Creating & editing content is critical to building and retaining an app
audience. Find out how to improve your content strategy building mobile apps.

Nishtha
Nov 15, 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 16 minutes

In the recent past, we’ve been predicting that mobile usage will overtake
desktop internet usage. The prediction is true and we are already there.

Which also means there is immense competition to stand out of the crowd, Mobile
app development companies are working hard to rank high in the app store.

Ranking high is the only way an app could be successful, so how does that
happen?

It’s the content, only way an app can rank high.

Which puts a lot of pressure of coming up with a content that is effective and
converts all the visitors into customers.

But in practicality that isn’t really possible, a decent engagement is
considered a success according to marketing standards. Many apps die a quick
death because of lack of engagement by the users.

Let’s imagine, if you are in search of a food app, what makes you install it?
And why is the content so important?

It’s the content yes, it’s obvious that you can’t taste the food through the
app. Only thing which keeps you engaged is the content i.e. the pictures and
the description and other mobile app content elements.

It may not be easy to get the right content, but you can surely improve over
the course of time. but the first step is to see the mobile app content as a
unique entity.

The marketing strategy doesn’t change for mobile application, it’s the same as
a desktop app, and planning a content marketing strategy that exclusively
caters to your app’s experience is key to success.

Before we learn how to create engaging content for Mobile apps, you need to
know…


What are the best practices for content on mobile apps?

Know your customers

Currently, retention is the most difficult problem faced by mobile apps.

Cultivating relationships start with one interaction at a time, including
rating prompts and surveys allows you to easily connect with your customers to
understand what needs to be improved over the course of time to stay ahead of
your competition.

Create deep linking functionality

When you open emails on our smartphones, you would want to be sent to the
mobile version of the site.

Learn About  Why Mobile App Fails

You need to use your marketing to drive people to the correct landing page with
deep links, which extends all your digital marketing efforts.

Build your app for multiple platforms

It is indeed challenging to design and build apps across platforms, platforms
and operating systems will only continue to grow.

In order to provide a consistent user experience, reconciling the unique native
languages of each platform is imperative.

Thorough testing Is needed

If your app freezes or crashes or has some glitches, you won’t really get a
second chance with the customers.

Forget about other did you ever keep an app which keeps on crashing?

The more you invest in making your app a quality product, the better your app
will be and more likely people will want to download it and use it and even pay
for it.


What are the 4 components of an app?

To begin, it's crucial to comprehend the architecture of a mobile app. There
are four primary components that every app developer should be familiar with:
1. Activities
An Activity represents a single screen with a user interface. For instance, an
email app might have one activity showing a list of new emails, another
activity for composing an email, and yet another for reading emails. Ensuring
each activity provides a seamless and engaging experience is paramount.

2. Services
These are components that run in the background to perform long-running
operations or to perform work for remote processes. Services do not provide a
user interface. For example, a service might play music in the background while
the user is in a different app.

3. Broadcast Receivers
Broadcast Receivers enable the app to listen for and respond to broadcast
messages from other applications or from the system itself. For example,
applications can start a particular service upon recognizing a specific action
has occurred.

4. Content Providers
Content Providers manage access to a structured set of data. They encapsulate
the data and provide mechanisms for defining data security. Content providers
are useful for reading and writing data that is private to your app and not
shared.
Understanding these components is foundational for developing an app that
delivers a rich and engaging user experience.


How to Use Content Marketing In Your Website to Drive Organic App Installs?

Leveraging content marketing on your website can significantly boost organic
installs of your mobile app. Here’s how:


Capture Attention with Visual Elements

Utilize high-quality images, videos, and infographics to grab attention. Visual
content is not only engaging but also helps convey your app’s features and
benefits at a glance.


Prioritize App Store Optimization (ASO)

ASO is crucial for improving your app’s visibility in the app stores. Include
relevant keywords in your app’s title and description to enhance its
discoverability.


Boost Your Reputation with Social Proof

Incorporate testimonials, user reviews, and case studies on your website.
Social proof builds trust and encourages new users to download your app.


Localize Your App

Localization goes beyond translation. It involves culturally adapting your app
to suit local languages, currencies, and user behaviors, making it more
engaging for diverse audiences.

Let’s check out some brands that get the importance of mobile content marketing.

If mobile is not really a key player in your marketing strategy, you’re heading
in a wrong direction.

Mobile user experience is the future to attract customers and building an
amazing ROI for the business. If you’re in need of inspiration, below is a list
of four brands that are doing It right.

Media: Fast Company

A fast company is a magazine company, which is known for being innovative. So
this is their story when they’ve done something phenomenal and innovative at
the same time.

When they announced their app, which features the Fast Company magazine
experience in digital form, which also contains real-time updates so that
you’re always up to the mark.

And guess what all the content on the app and subscriptions were all free for a
period of time, also encouraging the feedback.

 Mobile Application Development – iOS & Android Experts

This is because Fact company not only understands the importance of mobile
accessibility but also the user experience.

A lot of companies create a mobile application as an afterthought, which is
worse than not having one at all. Its apps like these which gives the users a
frustrating experience, which is the reason they die out really quick from the
market.

And Fast company is a great example of a media company that has embraced the
future of publishing rather than ignoring it, which as a result made they key
player in their domain.

E-commerce: Amazon

It’s no surprise that Amazon is a great company, it’s the crowned king of
e-commerce platform. And their success erupted through their mobile application
and has the best in the category app in all the platforms. And it’s also one of
the most used apps worldwide.

Its user interface experience is really simple yet functional, with a clean
one-column structure for lists that don’t overwhelm the user,

On top of that Amazon’s app is famous for its one-click purchasing, which is
extremely attracting and appealing to a user who doesn’t like to go through a
painful long purchasing process.

The minimalist design, paired with exceptional customer service and extremely
fast delivery options, is the backstory behind Amazon’s success.

Amazon’s sets a really good example for an e-commerce business, especially the
company’s ability to shift its thinking and adapt to new technology at the drop
of a hat.

Restaurants: Domino’s

A couple of years back, one of the famous pizza chain Domino’s launched a
mobile app which allowed users to Voice- order.

In my opinions that a bold act and a crazy investment for the brand, and guess
what? It paid off.

The application’s launch, which was a part of a larger marketing overhaul,
helped put domino’s back on the map and contributed to bustling profits.

Domino’s knew if it wanted to remain relevant, the company needed to become a
digital player to give its customers a unique experience that differentiated
the brand in a saturated marketplace.

This kind of option was first of its kind in the quick service industry, which
allowed domino’s to reinvent itself as a forward-thinking innovator in its
field and gain a leg up on the competition.

Taxi services – Uber

How could we not mention Uber, in this list of examples?
It’s the app which changed the way people book a taxi and it sets an example
and a template to many business models.

It showed the world, how powerful an app can be. And provided bread and butter
for many mobile app development companies.

When Uber was first launched, there was no app in the taxi service industry
with its mobile app.

For those of you living under a rock, Uber’s app allows you to order a
flat-rate cab to your location, receive notifications through text and also
push notifications from the time you book till you finish your ride.

It also allows you to pay electronically to avoid awkward exchanges and
surprise fees at the end of your ride.

Uber has become so successful that it still rocks the cab industry, with some
even trying to ban Uber.

Uber always sets a perfect example of a company that was able to renovate
itself using a mobile application.

Having a great content strategy for mobile applications is not a choice, it’s a
necessity.
So, how can you create a successful mobile-optimized content strategy?

By Creating Longer Content

In Today’s standards, it really not enough to get enough audience with a
500-word article or a blog, that’s because longer articles have enough space to
have the greater number of keywords and keywords are the key to optimization,
longer articles have greater potential to discuss any given subject matter in
greater depth.

They have more chances of being interesting and also being shared on the
internet, especially the social networking platforms.

Google has also updated its search algorithm to include ‘Content quality’ as a
metric to rank websites.

So basically the more relevant and well-written the article is, the more likely
it is to be read by the audience.

but the likelihood that someone will read your long article always depends on
factors such as the topic you have chosen and how interesting is your writing
and also the user feels it’s relevant to what he is looking for.

But according to the SEO strategies, longer the article better it is for
optimization.

Think Ahead

As mentioned above there are more searches on a mobile device than a desktop,
and most of them are google searches. No matter what device you are using the
general search option is always preferred to google.

Learn About Importance of Effective UI/UX in Mobile App Development

Which makes Google as an ultimate target, and landing on the first page of
Google is indeed a priority.

While you design the look of your web app, it is imperative to think of how it
will look on a phone, not just on a laptop or a desktop. A mobile site cannot
have a ton of adverts compared to its desktop version which could contain two
sidebars on either side of the page with advertising space.

Understand your Audience

If you don’t know your audience, you really don’t know what you’re doing, which
might be the reason for your failure.

If you wish to create a really successful mobile content strategy, it is really
important to know your audience.

Things you need to know, which could tell you more about the audience.

    • What does a person do most of the time when she/he is online? We all know
      the answer, but which social media platform is more suitable for your
      business target audience?
    • Do they access the internet using smartphones or tablets?
    • What is the percentage of the audience that uses mobile devices when
      using your website?
    • How popular is your visual content?
    • What type of content you’ve posted gets more responses and which content
      pieces get to share the most?

When you get answers to these questions, you will be able to decode the
audience you need to target and also helps you a lot in creating a great
content strategy.

When you could understand your content, you don’t have to cover a vast range of
topics. Instead, concentrate on topics which your audience need and make them
even better.

Something which you need to remember is. when you are creating content you are
obviously trying to increase audience engagement. But do not tailor content to
fit your marketing objectives.

But instead, create great content first and then think of creative ways in
which to tailor the content to fit your marketing objectives.

Choose better metrics and even better formatting

When you are trying to figure out what should be your content strategy and
which content is doing well with your audience, you need to look at a number of
factors.

Instead of focusing solely on the number of likes and shares published content
generates, try to focus on more significant goals, goals such as Higher
conversion rates from visitors on landing pages

Lower Bounce rate

Lower the bounce rate, longer your visitors are staying on your site and not
instantly clicking away.

A higher bounce rate means that your page is not user-friendly and it also
means that visitors to your site aren’t clicking on Call to Action or
converting into valuable contacts.

A higher bounce rate also means that the visitor wasn’t able to find what he or
she was looking for, which indicates a need to improve your content quality.

Well there are many ways could you improve your bounce rate:

    • Choose the right keywords, according to your content.
    • Write useful meta descriptions for users being directed by search engines.
    • For more attractive page use a larger font, ensure white spaces on your
      page, use larger headlines and make use of bulleted lists. All this
      actually helps you to make your text more readable.
    • Make sure you are using responsive web page design which translates
      seamlessly across various devices. A proper testing on different devices
      will help you.
    • Do not hurry and get to the point, make it interesting and also don’t
      forget to reward.
    • Use images and videos, to add an extra layer to your content, don’t
      forget to use only high-resolution content.

Choose the right type of content

Remember the questions you need to get answers to which I’ve mentioned above,
that’s just not enough to create great content.

You will also need to know that different types of content work with different
businesses.
Although e-commerce sites have a greater chance of success with quizzes and
contests, white papers and case studies are better suited to B2B marketers.

Being able to efficiently re-purpose content across various marketing channels
is a skill you need to have an excellent content strategy.

Switching content between newsletters, social media, e-books or a blog post
will make sure you get the most exposure for any piece of content.

Making a video, is also another option but it’s a bigger investment and things
should be perfect, you need to convey your message in less time where things
could go wrong, allowing your readers to make more efficient use of time.

However, there are other alternatives like infographics and images to convey
your message.

Smart Content

The current copywriting trend suggests, “Writing the way you speak” is much
effective than the traditional writing, and it is more interactive. It is
important to know what you are trying to convey what to say and what to skip.

You are trying to make a point and some of what you say feel superfluous,
instead of including everything in the same article.

Nothing wrong in redirecting your users to another page using a hyperlink, it
helps in going off topic and it gives a deep understanding of the readers.

When you think that your reader’s attention span is getting shorter, focus on
marketing their experience on your mobile site as streamlined as possible.

Now that you know the content strategy, you need to know how to create an
engaging content for your mobile app or mobile website.

Creating an engaging content is always a challenging task, especially if you
are a beginner. In fact, it is one of the top marketing challenges, and more
than 60% of the marketing experts in the market struggle to do so.

Mobile app development companies can relate to this more than other platforms
because of the demand it has in the market, also because they are naturally
more interactive than information loaded binders and word-heavy papers.

On top of that, apps have a world of potential to be more visually gripping
than their paper document counterparts.

Create a first impression

Don’t judge a book by its cover does really apply when it comes to the content
online, people will judge by its cover, which is why you need to focus on
making the first impression.

Have you been on YouTube lately?

Ever seen a gadget review?

The first video of a newly launched phone says “First Impressions” which is
really important now a
days.

First impressions are mostly design related; a positive first impression can
affect the way that a user perceives your company or brand in future
interactions.

There are a few ways you could create a good first impression:

    • By having a powerful, hard-hitting image appear upon opening, the app
      grasps the prospect’s attention from the get-go.
    • I personally click on articles, which have an eye-catching image to find
      out what’s in store.
    • If you’re opening page isn’t visually intriguing, you’ve already run the
      risk of losing their interest.
    • Visitors need to know that what they are looking at is valid. Branding
      your app and making it look professional can help you achieve that
      validity. Be sure your logo is up-to-date and precise and that color
      scheme fits the company and the presentation.

What content is effective and what isn’t

Engaging content always makes a mobile sales app efficient and useful.

The most effective mobile marketing strategies provide the customer with a
positive experience that leaves them believing that your product is
irreplaceable.

This positive experience is brought forth by the content that you present –
Your mobile sales enablement platform is only as strong as your weakest piece
of content.

As I’ve mentioned earlier, word-heavy documents may be full of information, but
the customer only wants to know the most important takeaways.

Two-thirds of buyers strongly agree that vendors should stop overloading
content with small print to improve the quality of their content.

Since every visitor or user is different, it is very important that the content
is targeted to the audience that you are presenting to.

For example, some people are more analytical and intrigued by holistic
statistics and charts while others are more creative-minded and better digest
videos and fragments of information.

Your content need to reflect in these ways.

    • Make sure your content is emotionally connected to the audience. Which is
      why you need to know your audience so that you know what content you
      should be writing. Providing real-life example is one other way of making
      the content interesting, it deepens the connections between the reader
      and the content.
    • Provide knowledge with charts and graphs using examples and statistics,
      keep in mind that not everyone is familiar with what you do, and using
      heavy industry-specific lingo can be overwhelming. Simplify where it is
      necessary.
    • Make them hungry for more of your content; don’t sit back with just one
      good content. If you’re good with the above points, this will obviously
      follow.

Be a Storyteller

Being a blogger, I don’t like the information-heavy articles or blogs, it
doesn’t mean that people won’t read your content but it’s not for everyone.

The difference between the words that people don’t want to read and the words
that people enjoy reading is the way that it is presented.

Make your content into a story format, it will definitely bring in more
attention than just an article with a lot of information.

There are four simple components of creating a story.

Setting: Highlight how your content is relevant to your consumer.
Conflict: This is the time to show how the product you are trying to sell is
going to directly help the consumer.

Learn About Role Of Wireframes In Mobile App Development

Resolution: Use specific examples of how your product or service helped a
company with a similar problem to your consumer. Extract information from case
studies that highlight how your product has already solved their problem for
other people.

The Conclusion

Probably the most underrated part of an engaging content is the call to action.
A call to action part is where you convert your visitors into your customers or
probably get them to sign-up which will help you gain your contacts.

This is the part where you will guide your visitor what to do next, to purchase
a product or to subscribe to them.

Much like the content, CTA needs to be strategically tailored to the audience
to whom it is presented and in a way that is relevant to your objective.

So how do you create an effective call to action?

    • It’s an opportunity for the user to try the product without being forced
      to commit right away, so don’t be forceful and if you have any free-trial
      thing, do mention it. If you would want to redirect them to give more
      information or to redirect them to fill a form.
    • Use words like click here, read more, learn more etc.
    • Give them a clear direction that you want them to respond right away, it
      is obvious that most people would not buy the product or subscribe on the
      spot, provide subscription button right away so that you could follow up.

Conclusion

If you follow all the strategies mentioned above and see progress in your
content for the mobile app, do not stop there keep.

The best way to stay in the game is to keep monitoring the best way to improve
your content by taking the feedbacks and how effective is your content is at
regular intervals. This will only help you achieve success and reach new
heights.

Creating an engaging content for a mobile app is not a structured pattern, it
has nothing to do with rules, be innovative! Always!

NMG has some of the best mobile app developers and amazing mobile apps under
their belt, if you are looking for a best mobile app development company, you
need to contact them.


Frequently Asked Questions


How do you write content for mobile apps?

Focus on clarity and conciseness. Mobile users prefer straightforward, easily
digestible content. Utilize bullet points, short sentences, and compelling
calls-to-action (CTAs).


How much does it cost to write a mobile app?

The cost can vary widely depending on the app’s complexity, features, and
platform(s). It ranges from a few thousand dollars for a basic app to hundreds
of thousands for a feature-rich, multi-platform app.


What is needed to build an app?

Beyond the four core components (Activities, Services, Broadcast Receivers,
Content Providers), building an app requires a clear concept, a user-centric
design, a dedicated development team, and a robust marketing strategy.


How long does it take to write a mobile app?

The development time can range from a few weeks for a simple app to over a year
for a complex app with multiple features and customizations.


Why choose online mobile app design services content?

Online mobile app design services offer expertise, efficiency, and convenience.
They can help streamline the development process, ensuring your app is visually
appealing, user-friendly, and aligned with your business goals.

Request Free Pricing
Growth


Similar posts

Technology


node.js for Web Applications

Why use Node.js? A comprehensive guide to building an interactive and
fully-featured web application from scratch with NodeJS.

Nishtha Sep 30, 2017
Technology


A guide to Laravel – Everything you need to know about Laravel

Laravel is the most popular open-source PHP framework designed for building web
applications in 2022. Learn to develop web applications with the...

Nishtha Jan 11, 2020
Technology


Top Web Building Tools and Platforms

Looking for user-friendly website building platforms that help you manage your
website? Here’s the list of top website building tools & platforms for...

Nishtha Nov 16, 2017


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.