Web


Need a New Ecommerce Site for Your Business? Our Prices Start From $999

NMG offers best solutions or ecommerce site development at affordable prices.
We specialize in custom E-commerce website development. Contact us today.

Nishtha
Oct 16, 2015
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 4 minutes

Running a successful e-commerce store in such a competitive market requires us
to not only understand the technical aspect of your business but also its
production and marketing aspect.

Based on this study, we are able to suggest you solutions and third parties
which fit perfectly into your business model and hence lets you operate in a
seamless way so you can focus only on your business.
An e-commerce store can only function if your designer understands the business
side of it. This is where our expertise comes into play. We at NMG have loads
of experience in developing successful e-commerce stores.

 Want to Know How To Increase your website traffic by 50% – Follow these simple steps!


We are a perfect fit – Here’s how!

When you look for a partner to design and create your e-commerce site you need
someone who will help you define your brand and then design that into your
site. Once you have your brand, the hard part is to make sure that you stay
within what you have defined.

Make sure you read our article “12 Must have pages on your Ecommerce Store” to
get a better understanding of what to include.

Learn More About  Marketing Tactics You Can Steal from Competitors

Here are some of the benefits you get when using NMG as your development
partner.

    • Free Consulting – from a solutions architect with a minimum experience of
      10 years working with global clients
    • Project Management – Free monitoring from a project manager with a
      minimum experience of 10 years working with global clients
    • Confidentiality – We are open to sign Non-Disclosure agreements and take
      it very seriously
    • Ownership – own your source codes
    • Flexibility – Hire a PHP developer on the hourly, full-time, or part-time
      basis and cancel at any time.
    • Communication – via Skype, Local US VOIP, GoToMeeting & Hangouts
    • Process Driven – We use Basecamp and invision applications to collaborate
      with our clients and share detailed daily/weekly timesheets
    • Happy Customers – We are working for Top Blue Chip Clients/ Brands, Tech
      Startup’s (VC Funded and Bootstrapped), Top Agencies located in the USA,
      UK, Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Nigeria and the UAE

 Learn About Best Practices for a Contact Us Page


Our Ecommerce Packages

We have ecommerce packages to fit your business needs from small, medium, and
large business models starting at $999. You can pick from a ready designed
theme to a fully customized design. Your solutions architect will help you
determine which you will need depending upon your requirements.

Check our affordable Ecommerce Packages below:

SMALL BUSINESS
ECOMMERCE PACKAGE 	SMALL BUSINESS
ECOMMERCE PACKAGE 	MID-SIZE BUSINESS
ECOMMERCE PACKAGE
LARGE BUSINESS
ECOMMERCE PACKAGE
SHOPPING CART 	WordPress, Woocommerce 	WordPress, Woocommerce,
Magento Community Edition 	WordPress, Woocommerce,
Magento Community Edition
PLUGIN INTEGRATION 	Up to 3 Free plugins 	Up to 3 Free plugins 	Up to 5 Free
plugins
DESIGN STYLE 	Use an Existing Mobile
Friendly Theme 	Mobile friendly Theme with custom designs based on
client requirements
and suggestions 	Custom Responsive Designs
based on your requirements and suggestions from our Dedicated
Team of UI experts
DESIGN PROCESS 	Matching themes are researched
and suggested.
Final theme approved is implemented with
modifications (if needed) 	Matching themes are researched
and suggested.
Modifications in the design
theme based on clients
feedback is implemented 	Our team does extensive
research and develops
3-5 layouts utilizing its
industry experience
and latest trends.
CUSTOM FEATURES 	Default features available
in the selected open source
eCommerce system. 	Up to 20 hours of custom
programming work included. 	Up to 50 hours of custom
programming work included.
DESIGN INTEGRATION
WITH SCRIPTS 	1-15 Days 	20-30 Days 	50-60 Days
LOGO DESIGN 	— 	— 	2 text based Drafts Included
UPFRONT PAYMENT 	50% 	50% 	30%
SOURCE CODE 	Complete source code delivered
to client 	Complete source code delivered
to client 	Complete source code delivered
to client
HELP DOCUMENTS
& USER GUIDES 	— 	User Manual to help use
your admin panel efficiently.
15 days on going support
after the project delivery. 	Video Training for clients.
User Manual to help use
your admin panel efficiently.
30 days on going
support after the project delivery.
PRICE 	$999 	$2499 	$ 4999
CALL US AT
1-347-416-6477
OR EMAIL US AT
info@nmgtechnologies.com 	 	 	

Want to know more about our E-commerce development solutions.

Schedule A Free Assessment
Web


Similar posts

Featured


Consulting can save you from building a bad tech

This article can be used a guide by business owners who are looking to build a
saas product for their business, a marketing head who is looking to...

Nishtha Aug 30, 2019
Featured


NMG Technologies Made It on the List of Top Mobile App Development Companies at
GoodFirms

GoodFirms recognized and featured NMG Technologies among the top mobile
application development companies, pioneering software development companies,

Nishtha Jan 25, 2019
Growth


Requirement Gathering: How We Solve The Biggest Problems With Consulting

Requirements Gathering, Project Development, Web Development, HTML, SRS
Document, System Specification Requirement

Nishtha Jan 28, 2016


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.