Skip to content

Search


Success Stories

For an in-depth look at our most interesting cases, please read from these case
studies.

SUPER SUCCESS STORIES


NMG powered
tech startup now listed
on NASDAQ

Adaptive was founded by Stephen DelVecchia, with more than two decades of
experience and a great professional track record at companies like Corbis
Corp., Barnes & Noble, Inc., etc. He headed Barnes & Noble, Inc. and Corporate
Resource Services, Inc. to become publicly traded companies at NASDAQ. In 2012,
he began his journey of building Adaptive Professional Solutions, an online
marketplace designed specifically for temporary accounting and finance
professionals that disrupts the staffing landscape. In 2018, Resources
Connection, Inc. (RGP) officially acquired this company.

Software Development Web Development Mobile App Development UI/UX Beta Testing
Automation Testing


Steve Delvecchia


VP Digital Engagement,
Resources Connection Inc.


(NASDAQ Listed)


"What set NMG apart from other companies was their experience in managing
complex programs and their strategic insights in the B2B segment. They did an
excellent job throughout the whole project and provided a level of assurance
and comfort in their abilities that others could not match"

SUPER SUCCESS STORIES


Advanced SEO and
Data Driven Content Strategy delivers rapid results for Atlys.

www.atlys.com

Advanced SEO Data-Driven Content Marketing Digital PR Technical SEO On-Page
Audit





233k+

Organic Traffic increased in 3 months



12million+

Impressions gained



334k+

Organic clicks increase



1200+

keywords in Top 3



20K

keywords in Top 20


Mohak Nahta


CEO and Founder, Atlys Inc.


(Invested by Andreessen Horowitz)


“NMG is my sigh of relief. It’s rare to find an SEO agency you can trust to
create data driven Advanced SEO and content marketing strategies while staying
focused on your unique business and achieving the desired results. The personal
attention they give our projects and the ownership they take over the results
help us stay focused on our mission to enable every person on Earth to travel
freely.”

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------