Mobile


NMG Recognized as a Top Performing Mobile App Development Company by GoodFirms

GoodFirms is an excellent research and review platform who is lending a hand to
the service seekers to get the perfect partner for developing an app as per
their needs.

Nishtha
Jul 14, 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 4 minutes

In today’s time, mobile apps are no longer for only big brands. It has also
been adapted by the small business owners to beef up in their industry.

That’s why there is a massive competition and number of mobile app development
companies all over worldwide.

In this case, it makes really difficult to find the best mobile app developer
or top mobile app development company for service seekers to develop an app.

GoodFirms is an excellent research and review platform who is lending a hand to
the service seekers to get the perfect partner for developing an app as per
their needs.

GoodFirms have placed NMG Technologies in the list of top mobile app
development companies for their technical expertise and ability to create
innovative mobile apps.

 Learn more about  Our Mobile App Development Services

NMG Technologies is an outstanding company providing web and mobile app
development services to startups, SMB’s and enterprises.

They have cornered the market in New Delhi, Gurgaon, London, New York and San
Francisco with highly knowledgeable and experienced team of experts.

NMG Technologies has been listed in top mobile app development companies after
a strict evaluation. GoodFirms research team evaluated many quantitative and
qualitative factors which also included the past and present experience in
various fields of industries, the quality of the work and the ability to
deliver the project. Considering these things NMG Technologies has scored 52
out of 60 in mobile app development.

GoodFirms research team evaluated many quantitative and qualitative factors
which also included the past and present experience in various fields of
industries, the quality of the work and the ability to deliver the project.
Considering these things NMG Technologies has scored 52 out of 60 in mobile app
development.

 Discover 7 Best Mobile App Analytics Tools

Considering these things NMG Technologies has scored 52 out of 60 in mobile app
development.

Here is the score sheet:

Score Sheet

GoodFirms research squad went thoroughly through overall performance and also
checked out the feedbacks of customers. The analyst team found that NMG
technologies have got many positive reviews from the customers for their
quality and reliability of work. Here are some brief of reviews from clients:

“I personally interviewed over 10 different technology companies before
deciding to go with NMG. Based off my project specification document, NMG
efficiently and effectively designed and programmed a captivating and
interactive website. The team was always contactable and replied to any
queries, design changes and requests that I had. I will be using NMG for future
projects.” – Adam Nardi – Managing Director at Sweet or Sour

“The client is a non-profit organization and is an association of IT software
and services that represent Indian IT companies across India and overseas. They
organize a lot of national events focusing on different verticals such as
engineering, BPM, HR etc and they have microsites for each and every event with
its respective information.” – Mukta Anand – Senior Manager, Marketing &
Communications at NASSCOM

 Technology Trend  Augmented Reality For Business Apps

Read more what else clients have to say about services of NMG Technologies

The remarks achieved in the score sheet and encouraging feedbacks from the
satisfied clients of NMG Technologies proves their technical ability for
delivering high-quality results to the customers. Considering all these
GoodFirms listed NMG Technologies as top mobile app development company in the
USA as well as placed it in the list of top web development companies.

About GoodFirms: GoodFirms is a B2B research, rankings and review platform that
identifies leading technological companies.

This firm is at the forefront in the race to give an amazing opportunity to the
service seekers to get in touch with mobile app development companies that have
proven their skills in developing and designing apps.

This platform is also fruitful for companies who get a chance to show their
innovative talents compared to other firms in their competition.

NMG, most reliable Mobile App Development Company. Get a free consultation now.

Request a Free Consultation

Mobile


Similar posts

Technology


Augumented reality – the future of application development

The ultimate guide to business applications of augmented reality. Augmented
Reality has been revolutionizing multiple industry verticals.

Nishtha Aug 30, 2017
Technology


Advantages of building your App in .Net Technology

Asp .net is the perfect platform for creating high-end applications. Let's take
a look at the key reasons of using .NET technology in developing...

Nishtha Oct 6, 2017
Events


NMG Technologies Participated in Softwave 2023, The Republic of Korea Software
Exhibition

NMG Technologies Participated in Softwave 2023, The Republic of Korea Software
Exhibition

Nishtha Nov 29, 2023


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.