Design


Web Design Best Practices – 10 Stunning Examples

Is your website engaging enough for visitors? Keep your page looking fresh by
following these best website design practices for your website in 2022.

Nishtha
Sep 10, 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 0 minutes

Have you ever heard of these phrases “First impression is the last impression”
or “You never get a second chance to make a first impression”? It’s the same
case with your Website’s design when a potential client visits you, the thing
which makes them engaged to your website is the Design.

Have you ever heard of these phrases “First impression is the last impression”
or “You never get a second chance to make a first impression”?

It’s the same case with your Website’s design when a potential client visits
you, the thing which makes them engaged to your website is the Design.

Web Design and development has two main factors UI design and UX design, which
have their own importance in giving a user the best experience.

Ok I’m not going to discuss a lot on Web designing and development but I’m only
going to give you a brief idea of what these terms are and how helpful they are
in designing your website.

UI design is the user interface where the human-computer interaction is taken
care, and UX design is done by the UX designer, where the user experience while
using the website is taken care.

The best use of these two factors UI/UX design is what makes an amazing
website, the involvement of the User experience designer will help you in the
growth of your business or the purpose of having your website. Follow these
best practice website design to give an amazing user experience.

Learn More! Amazing User Experience & Stragegy Design

Since you’ve understood the importance of the Design, let’s talk about why do
you actually need a website and what can a website do for you.

If you’re not living in a Cave, you know what a website is so I’m going to skip
that part. A website your online spokesperson who represents you and what
you’re projecting yourself to the world.

It’s not really important about what you are projecting because it’s your
decision, but it is important how you’re projecting it. This is where web
designing will be a handful.

A website can simply be a marketing strategy of your business or motive, so I’m
listing out 10 reasons why websites are an important tool for marketing

    • A couple of decades back print advertising was one of the most effective
      strategies for marketing, I’m speaking in global terms.
    • Ever since the internet is accessible to everyone especially after the
      smartphone revolution the importance of a website for marketing has
      immensely increased. It’s a one-time investment, you can make changes as
      many times as you can and it doesn’t cost as much as Printing. So a
      website is a must.
    • The internet marketplace is vast and has no boundaries, you can reach out
      to anyone, anywhere at any time with all the content you’ve updated on
      your website, the content is accessible to anyone who is interested, and
      also with better marketing strategies you can expand your business
      immensely.
    • Diversifying the revenue streams is one of the reasons, a website is not
      just a medium for representing a company, but it is also a form of media
      from which everybody can acquire information.
    • As mentioned above you can be available all the time, you won’t be
      turning away any customers. Your website will address all their answers
      and if they are really interested, they can leave their information and
      you can always get back to them.
    • A website offers more convenience for both you and your customer, your
      customer doesn’t have the need to walk up to your store, he can access
      everything and make up his decision on his couch.

If you can learn more from other websites and standardize your marketing
strategies, there is no limit to your growth.

A website gives you the credibility to tell your potential customer why should
they choose you, and you don’t have to sweat out giving presentations.

You’re providing the benefit of not getting lost to find you, to your potential
customer. How’s that? By being online in the form of a website you’re just a
click away!

A website serves as a great place to refer potential investors, to show them
what your company is about, what it has achieved and what can you do in the
near future.

Ok so since you know what a website can do for you, lets come back to the
design part which is the main subject for today, got a bit carried away back
there!

How do you begin the design part? What are the elements which need to be
followed for your portal web design?

What are the elements which need to be followed for your portal web design?

When you are planning the design always remember this “You only have to
implement what is essential”, so what are the essential things which contribute
to the design and elements followed by major web design companies.

Let’s find out

Add Stunning Visuals

Adding stunning visuals is one of the most powerful tools of designing, it’s
one of the reasons to fall in love with a website and make your customers want
to visit again and again.

Stunning visuals need to follow certain elements to be stunning, elements like
Vivid photography, bold contrast, and eye soothing visuals.

Wait I think I’ve got an example which you could follow.

exposure.co sets a good practice website design example with its good use of
white spacing and amazing photography. Well, it’s not just photography, but it
also adds up to what they want to convey.

Adding Vivid Photography

It may not be everyone’s taste but you can always try this, it ads that punch
which sparks your customer’s eye at a glance.

If you want to make a use of this comfortably without dominating the
foreground, you can use oversized and vivid photos, both for the homepage and
the inside pages.

When selecting the photos, you should choose high-resolution pictures that have
ample negative space, this will help in high-quality web design.

This kind of a design can be used for creative businesses if you would want to
try out on your corporate website using it on a homepage is fine, and anything
other than that is not suggested.

Play with Contrast

Contrast is something which gives a great feeling of being on the website, even
if it may not be the user’s favorite colors on display. A right combination of
colors and the right amount of contrast is always a great look for your website.

Simple Navigation

Never ever confuse your customer, keep the options simple and try to
standardize them, adding a bit of animation is always a good thing. But don’t
go over the roof with it.

Standardizing means keeping the buttons were a customer expects, and visibility
should be on par.
If you confuse your customer, the interest in interaction is lost and you’ve
got only a minute or less to create an impression. Don’t keep them guessing.

Don’t keep them guessing.

 Learn More about  Website Design Trends To Invest

Check out Agent Provocateur, for example, it has simple yet amazing animations
with all the standard options available visibly.

Learn the Art of taking away

Since we are following the idea of keeping it simple, in other words not
including needless elements in your design.

You should think what’s absolutely necessary to the content and function of
your website. Focus just on those things and take away anything that doesn’t
contribute either to content or function.

This way, what’s left has more impact on your users.

Responsive

No matter how good your website is, if it is not a responsive web design, you
need to work all over again. Make sure you talk about this with your UX
architect or user experience architect.

Let’s take a look at a few websites Which will help you understand how some of
the Big guns in the industry with simple website design for practice, how they
make use of the elements we have discussed above and what makes them successful.

Airbnb

Arguably one of the best Travel and hospitality website in the world, there are
many travel websites out there but why is Airbnb topped them all?

Of course, the Idea and business strategy is the brain, but the site design is
the thing which interacts with its users.

The features are top notch, talk about the interaction on the website all the
options are available and easy to find.

The look of the home page is welcoming with good use of white spaces and warm
pictures which would create that excitement and enthusiasm for every traveler.

I could talk a lot about this website but we have to look at more examples, why
don’t you take a look at it yourself, it’s Airbnb.

Basecamp

Basecamp is a well-known webpage application for its Project management
capabilities, it sets a benchmark for several others in the same category.

So what makes it better than others, In terms of design?

When you go to their homepage, you are welcomed with an interactive cartoon
which pretty much helps people understand what Basecamp is all about, and their
call to action column is one of my favorite.

The page itself looks like a blog page, and blog pages are cool! Aren’t they?

FreshBooks

The debate on whether a home page should be long or short is never-ending, but
if you choose to make it a longer this is the website you need to visit.

It’s like you’re reading a story, the home page pretty much sums up what this
website is all about. I love the white spaces and other colors which are set
with a perfect contrast.

The content used in FreshBooks is refreshing, there are a lot of “Get started
for free” bits after you read each column, which is good because you don’t have
to scroll up or down to find one since it’s a long home page.

It doesn’t just tell you what they do, but also show the stats which is very
informative and helps get more customers.

There are a lot of other features I would not be talking about because you will
be doing that yourself, just go to FreshBooks.

Evernote

From a simple note saving application into a suite of business product,
Evernote has grown over the years, the home page of Evernote uses a contrast of
two main colors and follows it throughout the website.

Following a color scheme is something which creates an impact in the market
where people can recognize your website at a glance, Facebook, for example,
follows the blue and white scheme.

The simple headline “Remember Everything” pretty many sums up what Evernote
really is.

CSSnectar

One of the best web design firms I’ve ever seen, if you are looking for a
benchmark website for web designing this is the website you need to learn
things from.

When you visit the homepage you’re welcomed with some striking colors and
contrasting color combinations, the gray’s cyan and purples are very well used.

They display their latest design up front and categories right under it and
with their links to social media, and other platforms on the right of the
screen.

Scroll down you will see their other interesting recent projects they have
worked on; you can pretty much see all the important information on a single
page.

And yeah BTW CSSnectar has been awarded as the best Website of the year 2017,
worth a visit isn’t it?

Boxed

Boxed is the best example for a wholesale e-commerce website, I’m not a big fan
of Alibaba’s design even though it is one of the most successful websites in
this category.

Boxed is one of the finest which is the reason it’s on our list.

Moving on boxed has a long scrolling home page, which pretty much sums up the
whole purpose of a website, the page is white and it is really pleasant to your
eyes, they played the coloring part with the text.

Clever isn’t it?

Desertfortwo

Desert for two is an amazing food website, you are greeted with amazing
pictures of deserts and yes try not lick your screen JK!

The photography on this website is amazing, a perfect example which shows how
to display your product on a website!

The page starts with a huge logo then links to the social networking platforms
they are available, followed by categories and other features and rest of the
page is filled with their detailed photos of products. Desertfortwo it is!

Hackernoon

Hackers are cool so is this website, the logo is a pixelated font from the 90’s
game theme, followed by the links to various categories and links to social
media platforms.

It looks messy but its good kind of messy, I personally like the messy feel but
it still holds everything in place and very user-friendly Hackernoon

FutureLearn

Future learn is an E-learning website, in other words, a website for online
courses, the first thing you see is a really interesting question in a big font
“What would you like to learn?” and a button to guide you through the list of
courses they offer.

Great use of content and the whole page has white spaces which makes it really
elegant and cool in some ways. I love the content on this website, it hits the
bullseye in guessing what a user might be thinking. Go take a look at
FutureLearn.

The Outline

Okay, this is the last one in the list, and it’s my favorite of them all. Won’t
be talking much about it, you have to see it for yourself. But yes just to let
you know, The Outline is New York-based digital media company which shares its
views on business, politics, culture, and future.

The website is absolutely stunning, it’s the most vibrant website I’ve come
across in recent times. Here’s the link to Outline.

Okay, I’m aware I spoke a lot about white spaces earlier, have you ever come
across a website with a video in the background? If you didn’t know, Yes!

You can put a video in the background. Video and motion graphics production is
generally more expensive than still images, which is why it’s sometimes
overlooked as an option.

But between stock videos and low-cost video production equipment, it’s more of
an affordable web design than before.

If your business is a bit more complex to be displayed in a picture or if you
think the video is a better option for your website, you should definitely give
it a try.

Before you do that there are a few things you need to keep in mind.

Keep the length short

Don’t just post a movie out there, typically this type of video length is
around 10-30 seconds, but I would say a 15 seconds video should tell the whole
story. And yes don’t compromise on the quality though.

Sound control

Provide a volume on and off button, a video without a sound might sound a bit
awkward but an option to turn it off will keep the traffic away from closing
the tab, and make sure it’s visible.

What kind of sound would you be playing? Probably a soothing music, no metal,
please. And if it’s a longer video do put in some voice over which explain your
website.

Easy page Loading

A video in the background obviously makes a website heavier, you cannot lose
your website traffic just for the sake of a video.

A video in the background can be compromised for the sake of faster loading of
the page.

Quality Video

The quality video doesn’t mean if it is HD or something lesser, yes a HD video
makes the page look amazing, but the video should serve its purpose.

The quality video doesn’t mean if it is HD or something lesser, yes a HD video
makes the page look amazing, but the video should serve its purpose.

You can either shoot your video or purchase it, it needs to convey the message.
Hey! Have we discussed how your background pictures make sense? I guess not.

Never overlook the importance of a background image, while you might think of
them more as just an element to ass interest rather than a powerful
storytelling tool, you don’t really need a video to tell a story.

Images can certainly tell their own story or reinforce the story you’re already
conveying with other content.

Using background images that rotate or change depending on the purpose of the
page adds an extra dimension of liveliness to your site.

The more “Lively” your site feels the stronger the impression you leave.

How can you speak with your images?

Well, you don’t have to create custom images to create an impact on a visitor.
Generally speaking, custom clicked pictures are always better than what you
find on the internet and they specific to your story and will always have a
greater impact.

Of course, it is a costly affair, hiring a professional photographer and then
the editing part will be a bit heavy on your budget, but hey the impact you’re
putting with these pictures will always profit you later.

Another great way to tell a story is stock illustrations, they are very much
affordable than a photo shoot, although they’re often too generic to
effectively tell a story.

Creating a website which gives a great experience is not an easy task, but you
can certainly design all the elements by thinking in their point of view.

You need to draft your idea and make sure you are following all the elements
discussed above. Although it is easy to be lost in the design process, you can
always take a deep breath and think from the user point of view.

If you need someone to help you with designing your dream Web application
project, NMG is someone you need to consult. They have created some
breathtaking website. Feel free to take a look at their portfolio.

NMG can help you design your dream web app

Request Free Pricing
Design


Similar posts

Growth


How to Break up with your old website – it’s time to get a new one!

Using a strategy that fits into your workflow is an essential part of a
successful website redesign. Here's the list of website redesign process for...

Nishtha Oct 5, 2017
Featured


Increase your website traffic to 50% more by following these simple design
trends

Want to increase your website traffic? Read on to know the strategies to
increase your website traffic by 50% in 2019!

Nishtha Aug 4, 2017
Technology


Top Web Building Tools and Platforms

Looking for user-friendly website building platforms that help you manage your
website? Here’s the list of top website building tools & platforms for...

Nishtha Nov 16, 2017


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.