Outsourcing


Best Practices of Offshore Software Development

It is very important to identify the challenges and risks of an offshore custom
software development company and mitigate them properly.

Nishtha
Jun 1, 2012
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 0 minutes

Offshore project development is quite different from executing projects in a
local market for a customer who can come face to face for meetings or calls.

It is very important to identify the challenges and risks of an offshore web
development company and mitigate them properly. Few of those are listed below
along with some measures:

    • Culture and language barrier ( even though this has decreased
      significantly with globalization by brands, TV, Movies in a country like
      India)
    • Communication gap – Ensure team members have Skype, Gtalk and are in
      constant touch with the clients in the overlapping hours.
    • Different Time Zones – Ensure tools like www.timeanddate.com Meeting
      planner are communicated to clients.
    • Consolidating output from multiple locations – Ensure a smooth project
      management tool like Basecamp is set up for every project
    • Lack of control over the client to be responsive on the project – Set
      expectations at the time of project kickstart or monthly client meetings
      on the project.

 Learn  More About  10 Effortless Ways to Find the Best Outsourcing Team


Need for a process to work

Software development has been around for many years and has evolved
significantly.

To keep pace with the advancement of software development languages and more
complex business requirements and expectations, we have to keep software
development methodologies under constant scrutiny and research.

Agile methodology has striven to identify effective and efficient processes for
delivering projects successfully within specified and tolerable resource limits.

The principles followed by the agile manifesto are:

    • Create a committee/group of motivated people who give the main decision.
      This committee should have members from both clients and development
      Company.
    • Give the motivated individuals the atmosphere and support they require
      and have a belief on them to get the job done.
    • Most significant is to please the client through the early and constant
      delivery of valuable software.
    • It is good to accept changing requirements, even late in development.
    • By giving preference to the shorter timescale and keeping the client in
      the loop, deliver working software phases frequently, from a couple of
      weeks to a couple of months.
    • Face-to-face conversation is the most competent and effective way of
      transmitting information to and within a development team.
    • Working software is the chief measure of improvement and assessment of
      the client.
    • The sponsors, developers, and users should be able to uphold a steady
      pace indefinitely.
    • All the stakeholders (client and developers) must work mutually on daily
      basis until the completion of the project.
    • A successful change management process can be maintained through constant
      attention to technical excellence and high-quality design.
    • Showing growth is vital in order to keep the customer satisfied.
    • The most excellent architectures, requirements, and designs come out from
      self-organizing teams.

Considering the above principles and ideology there are some best practices to
make the offshore software development successful.


Best Practices are:

    • Inspections
    • Component Reusability
    • Change Control Management
    • Communication Plan

 Learn About The Hourly Model of Hiring Resources: All That You Need to Know


Inspections

Inspections are detailed technical peer reviews of software designs or
implementations.

One should conduct an assessment and reviews at every stage of the development
this helps in detecting the defects and rectifying the work products.

Inspections help us control the cost and schedule of the project. Another
aspect of inspections is of new requirements; we inspect every change that is
made.

We also re-inspect the work products when there is a substantial change
activity or when inspection and test results indicate unusual problems.


Example for Code Inspection Objectives

    • Find design errors in the product.
    • Categorize the cases in which the code does not implement the design as
      intended.
    • Identify any improper use of interfaces.
    • Identify the reusability components.
    • Inspect for adherence to appropriate style guidelines and standards or
      constraints such as naming, commenting, and performance limitations.
    • Verify that previously identified issues have been resolved.


Component Reusability

Reusability is an important characteristic of a high-quality software
component. Component Reusability is about building a library of frequently used
components, thus allowing new programs to be assembled quickly from existing
components.

Component Reusability has produced greater schedule and effort savings than any
other best practice.

This concept applies not only to the code, but also to the design, data,
documentation, test materials, specifications, and plan.

It is important to create a repository to store the components that are
identified as commonly used components.

An effective way is to form a Reuse Group, which has members from the design as
well as the development team. This is a part of our long-term strategy.


Change Control Management

Change Control is an integral part of agile development.

This is a formal process used to ensure that changes to a product or system are
introduced in a controlled and coordinated manner.

It reduces the possibility that unnecessary changes will be introduced to a
system without forethought, introducing faults into the system or undoing
changes made by other users of the software.

Another aspect to it is client satisfaction for accommodating the change in
requirements through an effective change management process so that doesn’t
hamper the project yet maintains transparency.

A successful way is to set up a Change Control Board. Usually, this board
comprises members of development, test and design teams but sometimes also
include members of customer team.

The aim of this control board is to make sure that all related parties well
consider each baseline change and each change is approved before execution.

The task of the Change Control Board is the management of all major change
requests, its approval, disapproval, or deferring them for more information.

By increasing the visibility of feature creep and dropping the number of
uncontrolled changes to the product, the board creates its rapid-development
benefit.


Communication Plan

Strong communication is crucial to the success of offshore projects, and
therefore setting up a communication plan is very important.

This should be set keeping in mind the multiple time zones and language concern.

Certainly, many companies would prefer to do business in their own language
thus it is important for the software development team to have overlapped
working hours.

The communication plan serves as a guide to the communication and sponsorship
efforts throughout the duration of the project.

It is a living and working document and is updated periodically as audience
needs change.

It explains how to convey the right message, from the right communicator to the
right audience, through the right channel, at the right time.

It addresses the six basic elements of communications: communicator, message,
communication channel, feedback mechanism, receiver/audience, and time frame.

NMG, a leading software development company offers a long-term relationship
that creates ideas into real-world applications with cost-effective solutions
as per the clients business requirements.

Request a Free Consultation
Outsourcing


Similar posts

Technology


node.js for Web Applications

Why use Node.js? A comprehensive guide to building an interactive and
fully-featured web application from scratch with NodeJS.

Nishtha Sep 30, 2017
Web


PHP and Open Source

NEW MEDIA GURU (NMG) has a dedicated Open Source competency center (OSCC) .
Open source is the platform of choice for digital agencies around the...

Nishtha Aug 26, 2011
Technology


Augumented reality – the future of application development

The ultimate guide to business applications of augmented reality. Augmented
Reality has been revolutionizing multiple industry verticals.

Nishtha Aug 30, 2017


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.