Web


Ecommerce

Ecommerce in today’s digital world is not just selling, it’s a lot more.
Ecommerce is now converting itself into a more exciting term - “Entertainment

Nishtha
Aug 26, 2011
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 2 minutes

Ecommerce in today’s digital world is not just selling, it’s a lot more.
Ecommerce is now converting itself into a more exciting term – “Entertainment
Commerce” i.e. selling made fun. Unless you add the fun to your site, your
products will not be sold with ease instead they tend to lose their presence in
this big market of online commerce. You use “entertainment commerce”
applications in your daily lives such as Swoopo, Qbids, Group-on, etc. to name
a few. These are growing exponentially and thus creating a hunger for new
business models.

New Media Guru (NMG) has a lot of expertise in ecommerce web applications
design and development solutions that enable your customers to make a purchase
in a single step and come back to the site again & again.

We have partnered with leading platforms, payments gateways, solution providers
and brands to produce successful ecommerce solutions that are unique to their
industry.
Our expert team of ecommerce web designers and developers provide professional
design layout, easy product management, user database, comprehensive content
management, reporting & tracking to create a unique and powerful sales and
marketing tool for your online business.

Our ecommerce solutions are robust, scalable, flexible and easy to use.
We can develop your ecommerce solution using Open Source technologies as well.
We have separate teams which are capable of designing and developing websites
with Open Source platforms and custom built it on .NET technology. Our team
will suggest you features , payment gateways and plugins which can be used for
your store.
Some of the points we take notice of at the time of developing an ecommerce
application:


Design

Our specialist creative team takes care of every detail that can be employed to
drive up sales.


Analytics, ROI and Conversion

Our ecommerce creative team specializes in creating user interfaces, usability
and sales-messages that are easily used by your customers which in turn
maximize the number of conversions made from your day-to-day traffic.


Fulfillment

All of our ecommerce solutions are provided with comprehensive control panels
that allow for the day-to-day management of your website, product inventory and
orders.

Web


Similar posts

Web


12 Must Have Pages On Your Ecommerce Site

Getting an e-commerce website developed? Take your e-commerce website to a new
level with these 12 must have pages on your ecommerce website.

Nishtha Dec 22, 2016
Growth


Choose the Perfect E commerce Platform for your Retail Business

If you are thinking about creating an online store for your retail business,
this is perfect list of eCommerce platform will help get your online...

Nishtha Oct 3, 2017
Web


Need a New Ecommerce Site for Your Business? Our Prices Start From $999

NMG offers best solutions or ecommerce site development at affordable prices.
We specialize in custom E-commerce website development. Contact us...

Nishtha Oct 16, 2015


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.