Web


Top WordPress Themes For Your Business

Are you looking for the best WordPress theme for your business? Here's the list
of top 15 WordPress theme for your business in 2019.

Nishtha
Sep 16, 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 11 minutes

The Internet is indeed a crowded place, you need to be smart and creative to
stand out, you will need a website which is eye-catching but also designed to
display your content and represent your brand.

The design or the theme will help you in grabbing eyeballs and let people
engage with your content.

A theme is not just how the website looks, it should be interactive so that a
person visiting your website should be engaged for a long time.

And creating an interesting theme is as simple as it gets with WordPress.
WordPress themes that you can use on your business website.

Surely! You already know the power of WordPress, it is one of the most used and
reliable platforms in customizing a website.

It’s customizable, and its options are endless, it can integrate virtually with
almost any tool and platform you can think of.

Many of the great websites we all know were created using WordPress before we
do that I would like to brief you about how this actually works.

Choosing your theme…
It is quite obvious that you need to choose your theme first, choose wisely
according to your business type, I would recommend something classy and elegant
for a corporate website and flashy & flamboyant if it is an e-commerce website.

A flashy corporate website would scare most of your customers

After you choose your theme you need to install it to your WordPress account
and then customize it, the important thing to keep in mind while customization
includes showcasing features, features you would want your visitor to take a
look at the first glance and then keep them engage them by adding your content.

Also, pick a domain name and hosting space.

If you already know how this is done, well and good.

But if you feel it a bit daunting, or you lack skills. You can always learn to
click here.

Okay! Back to the main topic, I’ve listed out some of the best themes for
WordPress out there. I’m sure you would love them!

I’ve listed down some of the best business WordPress themes, it also includes
free business WordPress themes which could help you.

 We provide Flexible Engagement Models - Learn More about them Here

1. Corporate

At first glance, it looks very simple but it is a very professional WordPress
theme.

The main motive of this theme is to promote the most important information
about the company, the staff, and their portfolio.

It has a lot of white spacing with some blue elements here and there, it
provides some cool animations, a full-width header, and a blog too.

It features include
• Fully responsive
• Portfolio section
• Pricing table
• 590 font amazing icons
• It is AdSense optimized
• Shortcodes.

it is a paid theme.

2. Worker

The worker is a clean and also a professional theme with a multipurpose design,
it can be used for business and corporate websites.

The full-screen layout is a standout for Worker and also a full-width header
with a calendar for booking appointments looks cool!

The theme comes with everything a company needs to promote its services, it
offers distinct complex features and sections along with a great design. It
also provides an easy to use booking appointment form.

Here are some unique features of worker
• Responsive design
• Appointment calendar shortcode and widget
• Multiple colors
• Translation ready
• Portfolio page
• Pricing tables
• Progress bars

Because of its distinct features Worker made it to our top WordPress themes,
Worker is also a paid theme.

3. Mustache

It is a well-crafted WordPress theme for business websites, it comes with a
drag and drop homepage which could also be used as a landing page for a single
page website.

The built-in sections can be used for adding your clients, testimonials,
services, and new accounts. It looks spectacular on all the devices and it is
very much optimized for sheer performance and speed.

Mustache has some unique features you need to know
• Truly unique one-page layout
• 4 content types
• SEO optimized.

Mustache is a paid theme.

4. Customizr

Customizr is one of the most popular and highly customizable WordPress themes
for business. It is totally responsive and mobile friendly; the amount of
customization you could do is staggering.
It comes with
• Feature Slider
• Multiple page templates
• Layout choices
• And a lot of color choices.

Customizr is a Free WordPress theme!

5. Business Grow

It comes with a wide array of features and functions all packed at one place,
it is a one-page corporate theme that is well suited for all kinds of
businesses, agencies and IT sectors.

The theme brings you a flexible layout loaded with tons of good features like
hexagonal sections with amazing diversity, contact section and also advanced
SEO and full social media integration.

Some unique features of Business grow are
• Fully responsive design
• Advanced theme option panel
• Layer slider with parallax effect
• Custom layouts
• Awesome fonts and icons.

Business grow is a paid theme.

6. Dazzling

Dazzling is for the people who like elegant and simple themes, it comes with a
feature slider, call to action button, fully flexible widgets, and unlimited
color choices.

Apart from all these features, Dazzling is also WooCommerce ready, so if you
want to add an online store to your business theme you can easily do that
without losing consistency between your main site and store.

It features include
• Infinite scroll
• SEO friendly structure
• Popular post widget
• And Translation ready setup.

Dazzling is a free WordPress theme.

7. Venture 2.0

It is a simple and also a professional theme for corporate purposes that comes
with a content-oriented layout and provides a very clean look.

It offers modern animations, still keeping the minimalistic design. A blog, A
shop and also A portfolio are included in this theme.

Its features are quite interesting too
• Responsive layout
• Zoom framework
• Full-width slideshow
• 12 unique widgets
• SEO friendly code
• Easy customization
• Menu management

Venture 2.0 is not a Free theme. But its features make it worth calling it as
one of the top WordPress themes.

8. Pinnacle

It is, in fact, a bold WordPress business theme, Pinnacle features a flat
design with fully responsive layout. It is loaded with features which allow you
to customize the website into a unique design. Pinnacle also supports
WooCommerce letting you

It is loaded with features which allow you to customize the website into a
unique design. Pinnacle also supports WooCommerce letting you extend your
business website into a great e-commerce store.

Some of the features of pinnacle include
• Translation ready!
• Supports multilingual plugins
• Responsive layout

Pinnacle is a free WordPress theme.

 Learn More about our  WordPress Development Services

9. Tapptastic

A Modern parallax theme for smartphone developers who want to promote their
best mobile applications, it comes with an amazing full-screen slider and also
giving a clean and professional look for your business purposes.

And yes Tapptastic is only for Mobile applications and not for Desktops.

Its features include
• Responsive
• Image and video slider
• Icon fonts integration
• Built-in page layouts
• Easy to replace screens
• Retina ready
• SEO optimized
• Powerful contact from module

Tapptastic is a paid theme.

10. RT Theme 18

When you take a first glance at this theme, you can observe the immense number
of options it has to offer. You can use this theme for multiple purposes like
business, corporate, product catalog, portfolio or even a service website.

The design looks trendy yet so professional, the header contains an animated
full-width slider.

Its Features are
• Responsive and retina ready
• Template Builder
• Different logo positions
• Extended theme options
• Shortcodes and shortcode helper
• Product showcase
• Portfolio pages.

RT-Theme 18 is not a Free theme.

11. Business

Business is a responsive one-page styled theme, it is easily customizable and
offers a number of shortcodes. The pages have a white background and a blue

The pages have a white background and a blue color joins the white spaces.

There are a huge number of widgets integrated into Business.

Its features include
• Fully responsive design
• Customizable option panel
• Photo-friendly layouts
• Shortcodes and scripts
• Social media options
• Top-notch security

Business is a paid theme.

12. Spacious

Spacious is one of the most feature rich themes in WordPress, and it a
responsive business theme. It comes with a homepage slider, 5 custom widgets
most suitable for business websites and two-page layouts. You can choose either
a lighter or darker color schemes, it is fully responsive and looks nice on
devices and screen sizes.

You can choose either a lighter or darker color schemes, it is fully responsive
and looks nice on devices and screen sizes.

Its features include
• 4-page layouts
• 2-page templates
• 4 blog display types
• 13 widget areas
• And 5 custom widgets.

Spacious is one of the best free WordPress themes available.

13. Create

Create is an amazing multipurpose WordPress theme, which is modern and has
user-friendly features which make it suitable for both business and creative
agencies.

It has an elegant and catchy appearance that conquers you immediately. It
offers some of the most stunning and parallax video backgrounds, along with
lots of beautiful layouts and homepage alternatives.

With create, you can create amazing portfolios and online shopping as well.

Its features include
• Page builder
• Multiple headers and sliders
• Responsive and retina ready
• Lots of page templates and layouts
• WooCommerce integration
• Slider revolution integration
• Unlimited widget area.

You need to Pay to get all these amazing options though.

14.Kaiser

It is an imposing WordPress theme, with a full-screen slider, parallax sliding,
and a very clean look.

Kaiser describes the professionalism seen through a very friendly and modern
approach, using colorful fonts, animated icons, and elements.

Kaiser is mostly dominated by whitespace.
Its features include:
• Very responsive
• Witty Builder include
• Browser compatibility
• Amazing animations
• Parallax scrolling
• Portfolio and blog

And no Kaiser is not a free theme.

15. Full Frame

It is a simple, clean and spacious full-width responsive WordPress Theme based
on Catch Base Theme suitable for business websites.

It comes with a full package of interesting and rich features which help it to
be flexible and customizable.
You can create your own website in no time at all.

Full Frame is most suitable for photography, portfolio and blogging websites.

Its features include
• Translation ready
• Flexible customization
• And Full width responsive

Surprisingly Full frame is a free theme offered by WordPress.

Hope you’ve liked my collection of some of the best themes in WordPress
available out there, every theme is designed for a purpose and if rightly used
a theme will definitely serve its purpose.

Well if you need professional help in building your business website, I know
someone who could help you reach your business goals through your website.

NMG Technologies has a vast experience in creating some of the most beautiful
and purposeful websites for their clients, do take a look at their Portfolio.

Request Free Pricing
Web


Similar posts

Growth


Why is WordPress the perfect solution for your small business?

WordPress offers perfect solutions for all business types and sizes. A complete
guide to why you should use WordPress to run your small business...

Aniket Singh Feb 24, 2017
Growth


Marketing Tips for SMBs

It's a time for small business owners to think about new marketing tips. Follow
these marketing tips that could make the difference for your small...

Nishtha Mar 25, 2015
Growth


Requirements Gathering – How We Solve The Biggest Problems With Consulting

Requirements gathering techniques are helpful for every business, particularly
when you know which one of them is most important and can help...

Nishtha Jun 1, 2016


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.