Skip to content

Search


Create App - Detailed Guide to App UI Design for Mobile App Developers

Complete mobile application development guide to help you design and develop
the best-in-class Android and iOS apps

1. Today most of the time is spent consuming digital media on mobile apps.
2. Users spend about 90 percent of their time using applications on mobile
devices.
3. Around 85 percent of users prefer native mobile apps on mobile.
4. About 42 percent of mobile sales of Fortune 500 organizations are done
through mobile apps.

Table of Content

Chapter 5 Chapter 7


CHAPTER 6

This chapter is all about cross-platform app development.

In this chapter, we will discuss, “What is cross-platform app development, and
What are the advantages of cross-platform apps?”

You will understand, “What language is required to write cross-platform apps?”

Also, you’ll get to know, “What are the best cross-platform mobile app
development frameworks?”

Have a quick look!

Cross-platform App Development

Cross-platform app development makes it easy for developers to build
applications faster because they only have to write a single code for all types
of mobile interfaces.

Let’s start the conversation by understanding what cross-platform mobile app
development is?

What is a cross-platform app development?

Cross-platform app development allows developers to build an app for both
Android and iOS platforms.

Cross-platform apps can run on multiple device platforms, including Android,
iOS, and Universal Windows.

One of the advantages of cross-platform application is that the developed
application will run perfectly on both major mobile platforms.

Above all, there’s an ultimate advantage that the Existing code of hybrid
applications can also be reused to build high-quality desktop and progressive
web applications.

This becomes possible only with the help of development tools and languages
that we will discuss later in this section.

Here, the first thing to discuss is the advantages of cross-platform apps.

What are the advantages of cross-platform apps?

There are various advantages of cross-platform mobile applications, but here we
will discuss the top 5 benefits that have been highly admired by the
development industry.

Top 5 Advantages of Cross-platform apps

Quick Development Time
Since a single script is used, application development is swift. It is said
that the faster an app is developed, the sooner it will get the market reach.

Reuse of Codes
One of the significant advantages of cross-platform applications is, developers
don't need to write new codes every time; instead, they can reuse them to
integrate the same code to attain a similar functionality for different apps.

Controls Cost
Earlier, organizations used to spend a lot on technologies and tools to develop
native applications. But now they need a one-time investment, and this became
possible only because of cross-platform application development.

Easy to implement
Technologies like Appcelerator and PhoneGap are providing cross-platform
development, and this makes it easier to make changes by the developers.

Uniformity
The look of the app can be maintained across all the platforms with
cross-platform application development.

After getting a dive into the advantages, have a look at the languages used to
develop cross-platform apps.

What language is used to write cross-platform apps?

Cross-platform application development is getting increasingly significant for
both organizations and developers each passing year.

There are a lot of reasons why cross-platform has picked up so much popularity.
The major one is it saves cost and time since there is only one-time investment
in coding the app.

There are various languages for developing cross-platform apps. Some of them
are best in use by seasoned developers.

Here are the top 4 cross-platform app development languages based on
popularity, future and salary:

Java
Java is a core language for Android and is also used for cross-platform mobile
application development.

Java has a massive community and has support for various frameworks and tools.

Learn Java in detail: Introduction to Java

C++
Even though C++ is not as complicated as Java, it will work for any
cross-platform mobile application development.

The disadvantage is, C++ can add some strain to cell phone resources.

Know more about C++: Introduction to C++.

HTML5 and JavaScript
HTML5 uses JavaScript language for creating mobile applications that are
compatible with desktop.

Read more: “What is HTML?”

C#
Microsoft creates C#. It was known as an alternative to Objective C for iOS.

Applications made on C++ give the best performance on any platform.

Applications created in C++ provide direct access to CPU, RAM, controllers, and
GPU.

Know more: “Why is C# so popular?”

What is the best cross-platform mobile app development framework?

As OS and Android being the popular platforms in the market, organizations are
discovering new ways to satisfy their users.

Because of this high demand for mobile apps on both platforms, there is a
massive move of organizations toward the rise of cross-platform app frameworks.

Top cross-platform app framework.

React Native
React native is a part of React JS, which is a JavaScript library running
within the mobile framework.


It is specifically designed to create natively provided user interfaces for
both iOS and Android. That’s the reason it is widely known as the best
framework for hybrid app development.

Because of the high popularity, various mobile app development companies are
adopting the React Native hybrid framework to get ahead in the next level of
mobile application development.

Xamarin
Microsoft launched Xamarin as a cross-platform framework, and it is also famous
as an intellectual framework for mobile application development.

There are various features in this framework combined that are useful for the
development of quality-approved iOS, Android, and Windows apps.

It is easy to test cases, and there is a managed memory allocation as well as
garbage collection.

With Xamarin, you can do rapid development with a single stack.

Onsen UI
Onsen UI is an open-source hybrid framework that is relatively new but powerful
to compete with all other frameworks.


This framework offers an extensive collection of ready to use components that
help develop flawless apps and in minimum time.

By using this framework, developers will be allowed to write app code in HTML5
and JavaScript.

It also facilitates developers with the convenience of combining code with
Apache Cordova and PhoneGap to create feature-rich mobile applications in a
short time.

Flutter
It has been two years since Google's Flutter has been introduced as the best
framework for developing hybrid mobile apps.

This framework was specifically designed to support different languages in the
backend.

It has been a long time since Google's Flutter has been introduced as the best
framework for creating cross-platform mobile applications. This framework was
specially designed to support various languages on the backend.

Ionic Framework
The Ionic Framework is best, amongst others. It uses HTML5 for cross-platform
application development that has been utilized by engineers globally.

With this robust framework, it is effortless to create a progressive web
application (PWA).

It comes with the added benefits of AngularJS components (a robust JavaScript
framework), allowing developers to develop some powerful and complex scalable
applications.

JQuery Mobile
JQuery Mobile is among the old hybrid application development frameworks.

It has been following the "write less, make more" approach since it was
introduced, and that becomes possible due to the available reusable code
components.

Cross-platform mobile app development comparison

Cross-platform mobile app development vs. native

    • Native mobile applications are developed to meet the requirements of a
      particular operating system. These are designed with the help of its
      primary technology stack, SDK, as well as sensors, cameras, memory, and
      other programs installed on a device.
    • A cross-platform application is developed to meet the requirement of
      various operating systems and, hence, can be used on any smartphone,
      smartwatch, tablet, PC, and connected TV.

Performance
When it comes to performance, native applications win the game.

    • Native apps are highly responsive and very high performing applications.
      These use the best of resources and the capabilities of the platform.
    • On the other hand, cross-platform applications have issues with
      performance. Since they are built-in one-app-fit-all approaches, it is
      not uncommon for these apps to work on some devices.
Feature
    • Native apps use the device's native features, and this can be observed,
      especially in the case of iOS applications. Native apps work offline and
      help users access the information even when there’s no internet
      connection.
    • While this is not the same with cross-platform applications as they have
      limited access to the device's API.
Feasibility
    • Time taken by native applications for development is very long as
      compared to cross-platform app development.
    • Native applications are also costlier than cross-platform applications.
    • Maintenance is also higher in native apps, and it takes more time in
      comparison with cross-platform mobile application development.
User Experience
    • Native applications offer fantastic user experience with higher speed,
      better performance, and seamless functioning.
    • Cross-platform applications can also provide intuitive features, but in
      cross-platform apps, more features may result in less speed.

Native applications look much better in terms of user experience and
performance. However, it depends whether you want to build a native app or
cross-platform depending on your budget and objectives.

Applications like content distribution apps and games are simple and typically
built as cross-platform apps.

Let’s now discuss the tools for iOS app development.

What tools do I need to develop an iOS app?

There are two types of applications: Native iOS and cross-platform apps.
Different tools are used in both cases.

Here are the tools you need to develop an iOS app:

Native
    • Swift: Swift is an intuitive and persuasive language for building
      applications for iOS, macOS, Apple TV, and Apple Watch.
    • Xcode: Xcode includes whatever you need to develop a fantastic app for
      iPhone, Mac, iPad Apple Watch, and Apple TV.
    • Gravit: Gravit is a graphic designing tool.
Cross-Platform
    • Xamarin: Microsoft launched Xamarin as a cross-platform framework and is
      also renowned as an intellectual framework for mobile application
      development.
      The framework combines various features and is useful for developing
      quality-approved iOS, Android, and Windows applications.
    • JavaScript: JavaScript frameworks like Ionic and React Native with CSS,
      JavaScript, and HTML5, a developer can create an app that will run on
      both iOS and Android.