Growth


Marketing Tips for SMBs

It's a time for small business owners to think about new marketing tips. Follow
these marketing tips that could make the difference for your small business

Nishtha
Mar 25, 2015
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 2 minutes


Learn More About  Outsourcing Benefits and Challenges Here

New startup businesses come and go every day those that stay around and make it
year after year have followed a well-known set of steps to get them going.

Not only do these steps keep them going but once they are successful they can
look back at these steps to see if they need to modify any objective.

There may be additional regulatory steps you need to follow depending upon
where you have located and the type of organization you are.

Some of them are below:

         1. Do your homework – Create your business plan, and marketing plan.
            Study and research your industry well, see what your competitors
            are doing and how you can do it differently. Your government may
            have resources for small businesses too.
         2. Remember the Golden Rule – Map it out (document your requirements
            well). Determine what you will be doing in 3 and 6 months, 2 and 3
            years in the timeline. After all the above work, prepare a scope
            for developing an MVP (Minimum Viable Product). Don’t forget to
            look back at these documents in the future to make sure you are
            heading in the right direction.
         3. Use Open Source – Look for available development options, you might
            find off the shelf solutions or tools which you can learn and use
            yourself. Open source does not mean you will get lower quality but
            greater community input. Search the internet for open source
            software, and ask others what they use.
         4. Keep up on user trends – Understand the community features that
            people like to use. Study user engagements and behavior in your
            industry. Know what your customers use and how they use it to
            incorporate it into your product. Trends change as people change
            follow online design blogs and sites.

Learn About  10 Effortless Ways to Find the Best Outsourcing Team

   1. Study Digital Marketing – This is the most important aspect of product
      development. After your website is built you need to have a marketing
      plan in place. Digital marketing is the way to go forward to get your
      brand and product noticed. Some of the digital marketing services working
      for fresh startups are SEO, PPC, Online PR, Article Submissions, Press
      Releases, Blogs
   2. Learn from other entrepreneurs – Read, Read, Read! Case studies exist of
      successful entrepreneurs and how they ended up getting funding or
      valuation. Look to the Small Business Administration or other
      organizations for success stories.

Learn About  Requirement Gathering: How We Solve The Biggest Problems With Consulting

NMG, build effective web & mobile solutions for Start-Up, Enterprise, and
Agency. Check out our portfolio.

Request a Free Consultation
Growth


Similar posts

Featured


NEW MEDIA GURU’s Webinar & Workshop on “Digital Marketing Strategies for SMBs &
Startups” – Spreading Knowledge and Making Careers!

Digital marketing strategies for SMBs & Startups - The workshop covered
practical steps for developing and executing Digital Marketing campaigns.

Nishtha Jul 30, 2014
Growth


Why is WordPress the perfect solution for your small business?

WordPress offers perfect solutions for all business types and sizes. A complete
guide to why you should use WordPress to run your small business...

Aniket Singh Feb 24, 2017
Marketing


Digital Marketing 101: The Guide You Were Waiting for!

Digital Marketing 101: The Guide You Were Waiting for! Here we bring you our
expertise in guiding you to the Digital Marketing Path.

Nishtha Jan 28, 2016


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.