Skip to content

Search


Privacy Policy


Introduction

NEW MEDIA GURU (NMG) respects and realizes importance of protecting your
privacy, and NMG is committed to protecting your Privacy Rights to fullest
possible extend. This Section classifies the information this Website collect
from you while you use the Services of this Website and the mode and manner the
same is used by the Website. All users and visitors of the New Media Guru are
requested to go through our privacy policy before reading and/or using the
content on the website.


Collection of Information

When you visit New Media Guru you may provide us with two types of information:
personal information you knowingly choose to disclose that is collected on an
individual basis and Web site use information collected on an aggregate basis
as you and others browse our Web site. When visiting newmediaguru.co.uk, the IP
address used to access the site will be logged along with the dates and times
of access. Most importantly, any recorded IP addresses are not linked to
personally identifiable information.


Cookies

When you view Website, Website may store some information on your computer.
This information will be in the form of a “cookie” or similar file. Cookies are
small pieces of information stored on your hard drive, not on our server.
Cookies do not spy on you or otherwise invade your privacy, and they cannot
invade your hard drive and steal information. Rather, they help you navigate a
Website as easily as possible. Website uses cookies to deliver content specific
to your interests and to prevent you from reentering all your registration data
at each connection.

You may set most browsers to notify you if you receive a cookie, or you may
choose to block cookies with your browser.


Information Tracking

Website may automatically collects non-personally identifiable information
about you in a several ways, which includes tracking your activities through
your IP address, computer settings, most-recently visited URL, Operating
System, date and time, your preference and choices and saved options subject to
your browser settings.

Website use your IP Address to help diagnose problems with its server, and to
administer its Web site.


NMG Online Services requesting User Data

    • NMG provides online contact information facility to its user, whereby
      user can directly contact NMG, to obtain work proposals, request calls
      back, or may directly write NMG about their queries or request.
    • Accessing to all such online facility require you to submit all your
      personal identifiable data and information, like your Full Name, Contact
      No., Email ID, Skype Name, and any other personal identifiable data that
      may be required by NMG to respond to your query aptly. NMG stores all
      this personal information on its personal database. Such personal data
      you provide will not be sold, or made available to any third party
      website, that is not associated, linked or affiliated with this Website.
    • Website may use information collected to deliver to you information about
      the site and promotional material regarding its services. Your
      information may also be used to contact you when necessary.
    • Your all Personal identifiable information will remain confidential with
      NMG, and NMG will never share, sell, solicit, negotiate or grant access
      to any third party, any of your such Information.
    • Non-personal demographic and profile data is used to tailor your
      experience at our site, showing you content Website think you might be
      interested in. This information may also be shared with advertisers on an
      aggregate non-personal basis.


Non Disclosure

    • NMG do not rent, sell, or share personal information about you with other
      people (save with your consent) or non-affiliated companies except to
      provide products or services you’ve requested
    • You information may be provided to partners/affiliates/subsidiary
      Companies of NMG who work on behalf of or with NMG under confidentiality
      agreements. These companies may use your personal information to help NMG
      to communicate with you about offers from NMG and its marketing partners.
      However, these companies do not have any independent right to share this
      information.
    • We shall be bound to disclose any of your personal information provided
      by you, pursuant to any courts order, or any statutory authority
      empowered to order such disclosure.
    • You information may be shared by us with any Investigation Agency with a
      view to investigate suspicious activity, fraud or any malicious or
      illegal activity that may have been committed .
    • In case of any amalgamation, merger, or acquisition of NMG with any third
      party entity, in that event all the information and data will stand
      automatically transfer to such third party and all the information stored
      herein shall be subject to privacy policy of such transferee entity.
    • All the information that you provide may be used by NMG for analysis of
      its services, researching markets, traffic, prevailing trends, or for any
      other aspect as it may deem fit, and for that purpose NMG may make any
      such data available to analysis under a Non-Disclosure Agreement.
    • NMG do not solicit, induce or persuade any user to part with its
      sensitive personal information like Credit Card Details, Residential
      Address, Banking Details, User Name and Password, Access Code, any
      specific IP related concept, or any other sensitive information, which
      the user believes it to be of value or confidential to him, and NMG
      strictly obviates users from entering and providing such information,
      whatsoever.
    • NMG shall not be liable for any loss or damage sustained by reason of any
      disclosure (inadvertent or otherwise) of any information concerning the
      user’s account and / or information relating to or regarding online
      transactions using credit cards / debit cards and / or their verification
      process and particulars nor for any error, omission or inaccuracy with
      respect to any information so disclosed and used whether or not in
      pursuance of a legal process or otherwise.


Website Security

Our site has industry standard security measures in place to protect the loss,
misuse and alteration of the information under our control. While there is no
such thing as “perfect security” on the Internet, Website will take all
reasonable steps to insure the safety of your personal information.


Third Party Links

Our Web site contains links to other Web sites. Website is not responsible for
the privacy practices or the content of such Web sites.


Amendment

NMG may modify, add or delete any part of these Privacy Policy at any time,
without giving any prior notice, which shall become effective immediately upon
its posting on this Website. It is users responsibility to review these Privacy
Policy prior to each use of the Site and by continuing to use this Site, user
agree to any such changes.


Consent

By using this Website, you consent to the terms of our Online Privacy Policy
and to NMG processing of Personal Information for the purposes given above as
well as those explained where NMG collects Personal Information.


Payment and Refund


    • All the payments would be accepted on standard modes set by New Media
      Guru India Pvt Ltd.
    • As we at New Media Guru India Pvt Ltd. keep up high interactions with our
      clients and carry out the entire process with their approval thus there
      is no provision for any kind of full or partial refund. We clearly
      mention here that the paid amount would not be refunded in any
      circumstances.
    • Once an order is placed it cannot be cancelled as it is sent for
      processing immediately. Your personal preferences changed in the course
      of time, cannot serve a reason for refund or chargeback.
    • If New Media Guru India Pvt Ltd. under special consideration in certain
      cases decides to refund any amount then it would assign 48 hrs for shift
      of the site, domain etc. All the necessary usernames & passwords for FTP
      / Domain etc. would be provided for smooth shifting to the service
      provider or you (if you decide to though we strongly recommend that you
      go with a professional service provider). The company will not provide
      the content through any other media such as CD, pen drive, movable drives
      etc. to avoid unwanted complications and technical issues. On provision
      of this information, you would be solely responsible for the login
      information as well as content of the sites so provided.
    • All payments for services at New Media Guru India Pvt Ltd. have to be
      made in favour of “New Media Guru India Pvt Ltd.” only. We have not
      authorized any individual or organization to collect payments in any
      other name (i.e. any other individual or organization name) or via
      personal Western Union or personal Paypal Accounts for any services
      rendered by New Media Guru India Pvt Ltd. You are informed that under no
      circumstances will New Media Guru India Pvt Ltd. be liable for any damage
      caused in your business transaction to such fraudulent individuals or
      organizations.

To protect your business interests, please contact us immediately if any such
fraudulent individual or organization tries to mislead you.


Matter of Disputes and Jurisdictional Aspects

For any kind of legal dispute related to WeblinkIndia.Net would be dealt in
only territory of Delhi. All the legal issues are subjected only to pertinent
contemporary’s laws in force at New Delhi to the jurisdiction of courts located
in New Delhi only.


Governing Law and Jurisdiction

This Agreement and any dispute or matter arising from incidental use
newmediaguru.co.uk is governed by the laws of India and the Member and the
Company hereby submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts at Delhi,
India. This Agreement, accepted upon use of the Site and further affirmed by
becoming a Member of the newmediaguru.co.uk , contains the entire agreement
between you and New Media Guru India Pvt Ltd. regarding the use of the Site
and/or the Service. If any provision of this Agreement is held invalid, the
remainder of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------