Featured


Top 15 Cross-platform Frameworks for Mobile Development in 2020

Want to learn about hybrid mobile app development framework? Here's the list of
the best hybrid apps frameworks for 2022 which will help you to develop a
mobile application as per the user's expectations.

Nishtha
Nov 10, 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 22 minutes

Choose a single platform (Hybrid Framework) for your journey of mobile app
development and discover how your app idea is gradually transforming into a
dynamic product of the real-world.

Hybrid app frameworks let you achieve your dream application exactly as per
your requirements and defined budget.

When deciding to choose the best platform to develop an app, you’re often left
with a variety of options. There’s nothing wrong with keeping more than one
option. But the problem occurs when you’re unsure which one to choose to
accomplish the specified project needs.

Developing mobile applications is not an easy task as you’ll have different
options like native app development and hybrid app development.

Here, you need to figure out which one is suitable for your project.

But before jumping to the deciding factor, keep in mind that selecting the
right option depends on various factors including –

    • The project timeline
    • Budget
    • Existing team’s experience with the technology and;
    • Most importantly the target audience.

Therefore, make sure that you’ve made immense research and finalized the
document with all the required factors. Only after all this you’ll be able to
reach the step to choose the best platform for app development.

As the article is about Hybrid frameworks, I’ll try to explain all the good
facts of adopting them as your ideal cross-platform app development platforms.

You’ll find a lot of cross-platform frameworks over the web in a single search
but there are less chances that anyone will tell you about –

What are the best hybrid mobile app frameworks to embrace in 2020 and will also
be best suited for your project?

In this article, I’ve tried to answer all the major questions that can help you
find the difference between all the app development platforms. The write-up
will also assist you to understand the advantages of building mobile apps using
best hybrid app frameworks.

…

T oday, if you choose hybrid mobile app development for your business , it
means you’re inviting mobile users of all types including (Android and iOS) to
seamlessly access and explore your app.

Hybrid app development makes it easier for developers to build applications
faster as they only need to write a single code for all types of mobile
interfaces.

In short, hybrid app development allows developers to put a single time effort
to create an app for both Android and iOS.

The best thing is, the developed application will run perfectly on both the
major mobile platforms and the existing code can also be reused to build
high-quality desktop and progressive web applications.

Do you know how it becomes possible?

That’s all because of the contribution of hybrid app development frameworks.
These not only make the app development process easier but also provide modern
ways to inject creativity in the products.

Let’s discuss…


What is the hybrid app development and how it takes place by using the best
hybrid app frameworks?

Hybrid app development is the programming approach for smartphones. Basically,
it’s the process of developing mobile applications that can be easily published
on different platforms by only using a single codebase.

This app development process not only allows apps to be published on multiple
platforms (iOS, Android, Windows and Blackberry) but also lets them function
similarly across all the devices.


How Hybrid app frameworks assist developers to build highly-engaging apps?

Hybrid frameworks are the set of classes and libraries used by developers to
create dynamic apps for different mobile devices.

Hybrid development is also known as cross-platform mobile application
development. It is inclined to render a solution that users can run wherever
(on Android, iOS, Windows desktop and device) they want.

Features of a Hybrid app framework

    • Provides complete device access using plugins
    • Ensures medium to high app performance
    • Supported by HTML, CSS and JavaScript development language
    • Renders cross-platform mobile apps support
    • Facilitates with modern and quality user experience
    • Provides the facility of code reuse


How many types of hybrid/cross-platform frameworks are available in the market?

There are so many hybrid frameworks available all over the web that developers
admire and use to accomplish mobile app development with quality .

Here’s the detailed chart:

Available Cross-platform Frameworks
PhoneGap

Ionic

Longrange

Vuforia

Native Script

Adobe AIR

Firebase

Appcelerator Titanium

Xamarin

React Native

Onsen UI

JQuery Mobile

QT

Sencha Touch 2

Alpha Anywhere

Mobincube

Flutter

Mobile Angular UI

Kendo UI

Swiftic

Framework 7

Intel XDK

Corona SDK

The aforementioned ones are the best hybrid app frameworks that are gaining
immense popularity in the app development world.

A t this point in time, you have an idea about all the prominent cross-platform
app development frameworks. So, this is the perfect time when you need to know
what are the best hybrid frameworks that you can use in 2020 for robust and
powerful app development.

Have a glance:


What are the top 15 cross-platform frameworks to embrace in 2020?

   1. React Native
   2. PhoneGap
   3. Ionic
   4. Flutter
   5. Mobile Angular UI
   6. Xamarin
   7. Kendo Ui
   8. Onsen UI
   9. JQuery Mobile
  10. NativeScript
  11. Sencha Touch 2
  12. Appcelerator
  13. Corona SDK
  14. Framework7
  15. AdobeAIR


#1 React Native – A Stable Hybrid Framework for Budding Developers

React JS is a JavaScript library officially owned by Facebook. When it comes to
React Native, it’s a part of React JS, running under the hood of this powerful
mobile framework.

It has been built specifically to create natively rendered user interfaces for
both Android and iOS. For this specific reason it is widely demanded as one the
best frameworks for hybrid app development.

Due to high popularity, many mobile app development companies are adopting
React Native hybrid framework to churn out next-level mobile applications.

Example apps based on React Native – Facebook Messenger, Instagram, Walmart,
Snapchat, Tinder, Tesla, Bloomberg, Airbnb, UberEATS, Wix, etc.

Benefits of Using React Native

    • Ensures maximum code reuse – best to save the expense
    • Native code rendering
    • Easy identification of bugs
    • Supported by Node.JS
    • Integrated with NPM (Node Packet Manager)
    • Live reload feature – first one is for code modification and the second
      one is to preview the modified changes


#2 PhoneGap – An Open-source Development Framework

PhoneGap is the product of Adobe and acclaimed as one of the fastest app
development platforms . Overall, like other programming languages, it also
allows developers to reuse the once written code for creating hybrid
applications.

PhoneGap allows developers to harness the power of the Cordova plugin when used
with other frameworks for app development. The best thing is, the Cordova
plugin allows frameworks to connect the apps with native APIs like GPS,
accelerometer, notifications and camera that further results in a more native
mobile experience.

Example apps based on PhoneGap – The DHS Program, Paylution, Healthtap,
FanReact, TripCase, My Heart Camera, Untappd and Hockey Community, etc.

Benefits of Using PhoneGap

    • Simple to learn
    • High flexibility – as it supports JavaScript, HTML and CSS3
    • A rapid testing procedure that is easy to perform
    • Can be easily compatible with the plugin architecture


#3 Ionic – A Fast Cross-platform app development framework

Ionic framework is one of the best HTML5 hybrid app development frameworks that
has been used by developers across the world. With this robust hybrid
framework, it’s quite easy to build progressive web apps (PWAs).

It comes with added benefits of AngularJS components (a robust JavaScript
framework), allowing developers to develop some powerful and complex scalable
apps.

Example apps based on Ionic – MarketWatch, Sworkit, Justwatch, McDonald’s
Türkiye, ChefSteps, etc.

Benefits of Using Ionic

    • Built-in support for material design
    • Apps build are not complicated and allows easy updates
    • No need to spend prolonged hours to learn it as it combined with Angular
      concepts to ease the process
    • Pre-generated app setups along with creative layouts to choose from


#4 Flutter – Google’s High-powered Open-source Framework

It’s been two years, Google’s Flutter has been introduced as the best framework
for hybrid mobile app development. This framework was specifically designed to
support different languages in the backend.

The next best part about this hybrid framework is, it works outstandingly
across all the platforms without replacing Swift, Java and Objective C
elements. Moreover, it enables developers to create high-productive
applications and the reason is its single codebase for Android and iOS
platforms.

Example apps based on Flutter – Google Ads, Alibaba, Cryptograph, Birch
Finance, Reflectly, etc.

Benefits of Using Flutter

    • The best framework for cross-platform app mobile development
    • Comes with hot reload feature that allows developers to observe the
      changes in the app right away
    • Ensures dynamic code writing
    • Provides own development widgets
    • Compatible with Fuchsia – an open-source operating system by Google


#5 Mobile Angular UI – A Free Mobile UI Framework from MIT (Massachusetts
Institute of Technology)

Mobile Angular UI is an open-source and high-powered hybrid UI framework
(licensed under MIT). It uses Angular framework which is powerfully combined
with Twitter Bootstrap to further simplify the app development process.

Additionally, the framework comes with UI components including scrollable
areas, switches, overlays and navbars that help developers to build seamless,
attractive and intuitive user interfaces for mobile apps.

Benefits of Using Mobile Angular UI

    • Integrated with fastclick.js and overthrow.js for the best mobile
      experiences
    • Available for free and can be used easily to create masterpieces
    • No dependency on JQuery or any other library to proceed with app
      development
    • Comes with Bootstrap 3 syntax that is useful for converting the web apps
      into solutions very easily
    • Makes the app design completely responsive so that it can be easily
      accessed on any device and screen sizes


#6 Xamarin – A Hybrid UI Framework from Microsoft

Xamarin is the Microsoft owned cross-platform framework and often known as one
of the intelligent frameworks for mobile app development. This framework is
combined with different features that are useful for yielding quality-approved
Android, iOS, Windows apps.

This framework is written in C# that’s considered modern and has a lot of
improvements over Objective C and JavaScript. It also contains separate
libraries for C++, Java and Objective C that make Xamarin unique among all.

Example apps based on Xamarin – ORO, CA Mobile, Fareboom, Picturex, etc.

Benefits of Using Xamarin

    • Easy to run test cases
    • Managed memory allocation and garbage collection
    • Faster development with single stack
    • A large community in less market time
    • Suitable for cross-platform app development


# 7 Kendo UI – An HTML5 Framework for cross-platform App Development

Kendo UI is the next best hybrid framework for mobile development that is
powered by Telerik. Based on HTML5, this framework is packed with 70+ widgets
and various framework features. And the best thing is that these features and
widgets can easily be styled and themed using CSS.

Further, Kendo UI has a robust templating library that is highly-efficient
(more than jQuery templates) and makes the apps faster .

Benefits of Using Kendo UI

    • Not difficult to learn as it is mostly inspired by jQuery
    • Open-source hybrid app framework and comes in a ready-to-use format
    • Provides optimized animations
    • Leverage CSS3 hardware acceleration
    • Cutting-edge UI visualization


#8 Onsen UI – A JavaScript-based Cross-platform Framework

It’s also an open-source hybrid framework that is relatively new but potent
enough to compete with all the other frameworks. This framework features a wide
collection of ready to use components that help develop flawless apps and in
minimum time.

By using this framework, developers will be allowed to write app codes in HTML5
and JavaScript. It also facilitates developers with the facility to combine the
code with Cordova and PhoneGap to build feature-rich mobile applications in
less time.

Example apps based on Onsen UI – Giro d’italia and off-course golf

Benefits of using Onsen UI

    • Flexible and possesses semantic markup components
    • Compatible with jQuery and AngularJS
    • Provided with a detailed set of documentation
    • Available with various features like Built-in Theme Roller, Font Awesome
      and Screen Transition


#9 JQuery Mobile – A Hybrid framework With Stable Development Environment

JQuery is one of the oldest hybrid mobile app frameworks in the list. Since
introduction, it has been following the approach of “write less and do more”
which becomes possible due to the available reusable code components.

In addition, it’s a compact framework that emphasizes more on fluidity between
web apps and mobile versions. During app development, it provides unique user
interfaces to each platform so that apps could run flawlessly on all the
devices.

Moreover, it uses customizable themes and HTML-based UI that further get a
superior boost from CSS3 latest functions.

Example apps based on jQuery – The World Bank, Fareboom, etc.

Benefits of Using JQuery Mobile

    • Lets the developers create a single super responsive version for all the
      platforms
    • Stable hybrid UI framework to work comfortably with
    • Integration of ThemeRoller helps you create your own themes without
      writing additional codes
    • Ensures easy app development as it is based on HTML5 and JavaScript
    • Helps create easily collapsible menus for mobile applications


#10 NativeScript – A Framework for Building Truly Native Mobile Apps

Choosing NativeScript is highly beneficial as it helps you develop
cross-platform, Android and native iOS apps without any web views.

The framework is coupled with TypeScript, Angular, Vue.JS and JavaScript,
making it a super-cool hybrid mobile app framework to develop cross-platform
apps.

Additionally, the framework has also been supported by Intel XDK that assists
developers to create, stimulate and edit apps available in an integrated
development environment.

However, this framework requires in-depth skills of coding, which compensates
with extensive and in-depth documentation.

Websites based on NativeScript – Olo.

Benefits of Using NativeScript

    • Provides 100% access to native APIs
    • Reuse the packages from NPM, Gradle and cocoa pods to render high-quality
      apps
    • Open-source platform that is backed by Telerik
    • Provides outstanding development results as it uses plugins developed by
      the existing community


#11 Sencha Touch 2 – An Enterprise-grade Hybrid App Framework

Sencha Touch 2 comes next in our list of best cross-platform development
frameworks. It’s been highly in demand among app developers for its extreme
support of JavaScript and HTML5 that help build powerful cross-platform
applications.

It’s been immensely admired in the commercial world as it enables developers to
build enterprise-level solutions.

The cornerstone is its responsive UI that lets you end up with a clean and more
organized code. Here, all credit goes to object-oriented, MVC-style structure
of the framework that provides it this much potential.

Benefits of Using Sencha Touch 2

    • Backed by EXTJS, one of the most popular and powerful JavaScript
      frameworks
    • Helps create high-performance applications that are extremely close to
      native apps
    • Assists build more complex apps
    • Benefits you with clean and well-managed documentation


#12 Appcelerator Titanium – A Framework for Native and Hybrid App Development

It is indeed one of the best hybrid app frameworks that have been immensely
used to create multi-platform mobile applications. It’s very easy to get
started with this tool as you only need to download the Titanium Studio to
proceed with it.

Titanium SDK (used in this framework) is highly powerful and provides all the
rapid app development features to develop a robust app.

The framework is featured with Alloy (a framework for titanium SDK) that can
easily be used to support all types of app development which ultimately reduces
the development time by many folds.

Benefits of Using Appcelerator Titanium

    • Provides a mixed yet better development environment
    • Enables code reusability across different mobile applications and
      platforms
    • A platform for creating mobile, desktop and tablet applications
    • Contains Xcode (Mac), building blocks by its side, ensuring better
      error-free app development


#13 Corona SDK – Best Cross-platform Framework for Rapid Application Development

Though the list wouldn’t be complete if we don’t add Corona SDK in our list of
best frameworks for hybrid app development. This hybrid framework is introduced
with the motive to facilitate developers with a robust app development
environment.


The best thing is, you can utilize this hybrid app development framework to
build best in class and 4 times faster applications for Education, Enterprises,
and 2D games.

Benefits of Using Corona SDK

    • Powered by Lua based framework, a light-weight scripting language
    • Ensures ease of usage, flexibility and speed to develop mobile apps
    • High in performance and provides an excellent development environment
    • Amazing and large community support
    • Renowned as one of the stable framework for hybrid app development


#14 Framework7 – A Stable and Independent Hybrid Mobile App Framework

It’s called an independent and stable hybrid framework as it’s not dependent on
AngularJS or React. The framework provides high-quality apps that can look
native in nature.

Further, if appropriately utilized, this framework helps develop robust
applications with the integration of rich animations and various
styled-components.

So, if you’re really looking for a dynamic and high-performance hybrid
framework for 2020, Framework7 can be your ideal choice.

Benefits of Using Framework7

    • Ensures easy customization and app development
    • Helps create native applications without any dependencies
    • Comes with a variety of UI widgets and elements to help developers build
      many feature-rich mobile applications
    • Only requires JavaScript, CSS and HTML to get started with active app
      development


#15 Adobe AIR – A Hybrid Framework to Create, Test and Manage mobile apps

Adobe Air is one of the most powerful platforms created by Adobe. It uses the
front end languages like HTML and JavaScript that make it an easy and prior
choice for developers.

Already featured with a lot of app building and testing features, this hybrid
app development framework also adds some Adobe-specific technology like Flex,
Flash and ActionScript.

Like Java’s runtime environment, Adobe Air uses a Just-in-time compiler that
allows your app to run on different platforms. And the best thing is the
mentioned development environment makes it compatible with OS X, Windows and
Linux.

Know more about Adobe Air to wash off all your doubts regarding the same.

Example apps based on AdobeAir – Machinarium, MrFixIt, Chemistry Brothers, Comb
Over Charlie, Digitas Cache II , Aqualux , etc.

Benefits of Using Adobe Air

    • Offers a range of APIs that give developers access to functions like
      database management
    • Uses one common codebase
    • Best for creating rich media apps, games and other sophisticated apps

The above-mentioned are the best frameworks for cross-platform mobile
development. I’m sure that you end your search (for the best hybrid framework
for mobile app development) here by choosing the suitable one as per your
project requirements.

A t this point in time, you have the most sought-after list of the best hybrid
framework. And undoubtedly, you’ll select the best one as per your project
requisites by going through the technical specifications of every framework.

But, do you know what are the major steps that you need to look before
selecting any hybrid mobile app frameworks? I’ve made this phase quite simpler
by describing the major pointers to primarily look in a cross-platform app
development framework.


What to look before choosing a hybrid framework?

Here are a few practices that you can adopt while you’re looking for the best
hybrid app development frameworks.


#Performance

These days, every company and user wants an application with high-performance.
So, whenever you decide to choose any hybrid frameworks, make sure it’s packed
with a variety of features and capable enough to render you high-performing app
development.


#Cost

The cost can be the biggest factor when it comes to selecting the best
cross-platform app development frameworks. To keep this factor sorted, always
try to get started with the framework which is free to avail.

If you’ve gone through our list, you must have found so many hybrid frameworks
that are open-source and free to use for hybrid mobile app development. Some of
them are PhoneGap, Flutter and Mobile Angular UI, KendoUI.


#Development Time

Hybrid development is already known for providing rapid development. But still,
there are a few frameworks that take too much time to develop a simple hybrid
app. Therefore, it is suggested to choose such hybrid app frameworks that are
prominent for rendering fast and quality mobile app development.


#User Experience Factors

It’s not always mandatory that every hybrid framework is packed with all the
useful features that you want in your app. Believing blindly on any framework
wouldn’t work here.

Here, you’ll have to be aware of all the technical aspects a framework is built
with. It helps you analyze whether the framework is potent enough to create an
outstanding app with exceptional user experience.


#Maintenance

Today, users have high-expectations from burgeoning mobile apps. They want apps
to be fully-fledged and quick to load. Mobile apps that take time to load are
not generally preferred by the users. Here, it’s mandatory to check whether the
framework you’re using has proper maintenance features or not.

This clearly means that the selected cross-platform app development framework
should possess robust codebase to help developers make the required
modifications.

Therefore, whenever you go to a hybrid app development company, make sure it
has maintained a dedicated team. Further, the team should use advanced hybrid
frameworks to carry out seamless app development and maintenance activities.

Keeping a close tab on all the aforementioned points will make you understand
how you need to iterate while selecting the best cross-platform development
framework for mobile app development.

N ow, when you know this much about cross-platform app development frameworks,
let’s not skip the advantages these frameworks offer to the mobile app industry.


Top Advantages of Cross-platform Frameworks

Let’s have a look at the pros you can observe while using hybrid frameworks for
mobile development.


#Code reusability for error-free app development

One of the most important benefits that best hybrid app frameworks offer is
easy code reusability. Here, developers are free to use a single codebase to
develop user interfaces for different app platforms which ultimately reduces
the time and efforts for overall app development.


#Highly cost-effective

Compared to native app development, hybrid app development is quite cheaper.
The reason for its popularity is the single code-base, allowing developers to
follow the approach of creating the code once and using repetitively along with
various app platforms.

In native app development, developers have to write code for separate platforms
to make the app function flawless on all the devices and browsers. Here, it’s
clear which is cost-effective and which incurs a higher cost to develop a
mobile app.


#Convenient hosting facility

Apps developed using hybrid mobile app frameworks are of high quality and are
easy to host on respective app stores. To get this, all you need is to follow
all the app store guidelines and fulfill them with all the factors.


#Consistency in all UI components

Using cross-platform app development frameworks give you a decent extent of
consistency in all the native components of the device. This not only helps
quality interface experience but also provides a uniform look and feel across
all the smart device screens.


#Less technical barriers

There are fewer chances to encounter issues while working with any of the
hybrid frameworks. The reason is, there is no need to learn specific languages
like Swift or Objective C. The knowledge of JavaScript, HTML and CSS3 would be
enough to start development with the hybrid frameworks.


#Seamless cloud integration

Hybrid applications allow easy integration with the cloud environment that
makes them more robust in terms of database storage and access. Also, you can
integrate the applications with enterprise-grade plugins to ensure universal
compatibility for database synchronization. All these reasons made them the
best data-driven frameworks for mobile development.


#Short time to market

Introducing hybrid apps is too easy as these take a shorter time to market and
get quickly accepted by worldwide users. The reason is the quick turnaround
time that helps these apps make a prominent position among a variety of mobile
users.

There are various other advantages of utilizing hybrid frameworks for mobile
app development. You’ll observe them gradually when you start using them for
your project.


Start Developing Your Hybrid Mobile App Today!

In this article, I’ve tried to accumulate all the major points that clearly
describe everything about hybrid app development. Now, it’s your turn to go
ahead and choose the hybrid framework that you consider the best among them.

You can make the selection process easier by categorizing the queries like
given below –

    • Who are you/what’s your business deals in?
    • What do you really expect an app development platform should possess?
    • How do you want an application to be integrated?

If you answer these questions clearly, you can easily find a cross-platform app
development framework to accomplish your project needs.

Hope you like the information gathered in the article. You can subscribe to our
blog if you want more trending information like this directly in your inbox.

Need help in identifying the right cross-platform framework for your app? Get
in touch here .

Request Free Pricing


Frequently Asked Questions


1. What is Hybrid mobile app development?

Hybrid apps are generally web apps that act like native apps for end-users. The
reason why users find them suitable is their independent access on various
platforms like Windows, Android, and iOS.


2. How do you make a hybrid app?

You can simply create a Hybrid app by using any of the best-used frameworks.
Xamarin, Ionic, PhoneGap, Onsen UI, Appcelerator Titanium, Framework7, etc. are
a few of them you can go with.


3. Which is better hybrid or native app?

In the Hybrid app development process, one app is created for different
platforms which means only one app is sufficient enough to serve the purpose of
Android, iOS, Windows or Blackberry users. Oppositely, Native apps are
separately designed for each platform to provide users an ultimate and
optimized performance to the users.

Native app development is comparatively costlier than Hybrid development as
developers need to separately develop native apps for all the platforms which
requires too much time and money. But if you have a tight budget, Hybrid app
development is better as these apps exactly work like native apps.


4. How do hybrid apps work?

Hybrid apps run on devices similarly like native apps. These apps are
effectively coded using the best web technologies including HTML5, CSS, and
JavaScript. Moreover, Hybrid apps commonly run inside a native container,
leveraging the device’s browser engine to parse and process HTML and JavaScript
locally.


5. How much does a hybrid app cost?

The answer to this question can’t be exact as there are so many aspects that
need to be kept in mind while considering the cost to develop a Hybrid app.
There are multiple simple and complex features and functionalities that need to
be integrated at costs a lot. Next, there is technology selection which also
requires an in-depth project analysis that ultimately results in high
development prices.


6. Which is the best hybrid app framework?

According to the developers and top app development companies, the most used
and demanded Hybrid app development frameworks are ReactNative, PhoneGap,
Xamarin, Ionic, Framework7, OnsenUI, Intel XDK, Appcelerator Titanium and many
more.


7. What is Hybrid mobile app framework?

Hybrid mobile app frameworks are the scripting languages that are combined
together with the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to create competent mobile apps for
the end-users.


8. Are Hybrid Apps good?

Native apps are good to go as these are specifically optimized for all
individual (Android, iOS, Windows, and Blackberry) platforms. On the other
hand, if you consider Hybrid development, you’ll have access to a development
option that is more viable and cost-efficient.

Featured


Similar posts

Technology


A guide to Laravel – Everything you need to know about Laravel

Laravel is the most popular open-source PHP framework designed for building web
applications in 2022. Learn to develop web applications with the...

Nishtha Jan 11, 2020
Technology


Top ten PHP framework to look out in 2020

PHP is the most popular programming language among web developers around the
world. Here's the list of top PHP frameworks for 2022.

Nishtha Aug 24, 2017
Technology


Build Faster Web Applications with AngularJs

AngularJS is a magnificent framework by Google for creating web applications.
Read on to know why to choose development of web applications with...

Nishtha Aug 29, 2017


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.