Featured


Need a Quality Web Development Company? Choose NMG—We’re Clutch Approved!

Your search for the best web development company ends here! We will guide you
through the entire web application process.

Nishtha
Jan 6, 2016
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 2 minutes

At NMG Technologies, we enjoy bringing our clients the only best digital
services.
From web and mobile development, to cloud and online marketing solutions, NMG
is known for its top-notch customer support. With well over 50 experts on our
team, we have the skills and the resources to tackle even the most complex
projects.

We are delighted to announce that we were recognized by Clutch in their 2015
Top Web Developers India report, which highlights a series of outstanding
development firms with delivery centers in India.

Clutch is a Washington, DC-based analyst firm that’s dedicated to identifying
exceptional service providers in a variety of digital industries, such as
marketing and advertising, web and software development, mobile app development
and IT consulting.

Clutch is thorough when it comes to evaluating the merits of each vendor.

Each published report is the result of several weeks of careful investigation
combined with the feedback that they collect from client references.

That’s why we’re even more excited to have been positioned as a “Market Leader”
in their 2015 Top Web Developers India Leaders Matrix, which further
illustrates the priority we place on tailored solutions. The fact of the matter
is that when our clients succeed and grow, so do we.

If you were to visit the NMG Technologies company profile and reviews, you
would see that we maintain an average 4.9 out of 5-star rating when it comes to
client satisfaction.

In fact, during their interview with Clutch analysts, one of our valued
clients, the former CEO of an educational startup, had this to say: “NMG
understands that success is dependent on having a full understanding of what’s
at stake, what objectives need to be met, and how certain potential solutions
might bring them closer to the end goal.”

Another pleased client continued: “I was going into the whole thing very
skeptical and cautious because of the horror stories I’ve heard over the years,
but honestly, these guys have done great.”

Receiving credit from Clutch encourages us to stay innovative with our approach
and remain focused on client satisfaction.

We know that no two clients have the same exact needs, so we’ll continue to
stay creative when it comes to delivering custom solutions. And we look forward
to seeing where our partnership with Clutch takes us!

NMG, with an aim to achieve total client satisfaction, we have rooted ourselves
among the top web development service providers in the world.

Request a Free Consultation
Featured


Similar posts

Design


Vital Principles for Quality Web Design

If you're working on a design for your website, make sure you follow or
consider these vital principles of web design to secure the first impressions.

Nishtha Nov 30, 2012
Design


Good design or Great Design – Which one does your business need?

Ready to make sure your Web design is looking its best? Read on to know about
the best Practices for web designing.

Nishtha Mar 26, 2015
Events


SEMPO Hangouts Session- Web Design and User Experience

Designing a great website user experience requires understanding the problems.
Go through SEMPO Hangouts Session to know about the UX Design best...

Nishtha Jul 10, 2016


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.