Skip to content

Search


Transforming Businesses
with AI-Driven Innovation.

We help businesses unlock growth with AI to automate, optimize , and scale
intelligently.

17+
Years in
Business
$ 200 M
Funding Raised by
our start up clients
150+
Businesses Transformed
4000000 +
App Downloads

OUR AWARDS

• OUR SERVICES

AI-DRIVEN BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION & CONSULTING

Reimagine your business with AI & NMG duo. From daily operations to customer
interactions, let’s turn your challenges into opportunities with smart,
AI-driven solutions. Our expert consultants will guide you through every step
of the process - strategic planning to implementation.

Read More
AI STRATEGY & IMPLEMENTATION CONSULTING

Unsure how AI can benefit your business? Not anymore! We will analyse your
processes to identify high-impact opportunities. Then, we will design and
implement custom AI solutions that automate tasks, improve decision-making, and
deliver real-world results.

Read More
AI-POWERED BUSINESS PROCESS TRANSFORMATION

Free your team from repetitive, mundane tasks to focus on what matters the most
– The bottom line! Allow us to optimize workflows and automate processes across
HR, finance, operations, sales, and even customer service using our AI-driven
solutions.

Read More
AI-DRIVEN ENTERPRISE SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT

From intelligent integration & automation to legacy system modernization, we
build AI-powered enterprise software with data-driven decision-making
capabilities. Create custom AI modules for your ERP, CRM, and SCM systems to
drive efficiency.

Read More
AI & MACHINE LEARNING SOLUTIONS

Automate processes and predict outcomes with our tailored AI and machine
learning solutions. We specialize in Natural Language Processing (NLP) for
chatbots & document analysis along with computer vision for image & video
processing .

Read More
AI-POWERED SAAS DEVELOPMENT

Build secure and scalable SaaS applications with NMG equipped with built-in
analytics to track user behavior & predict trends. Drive growth and engagement
with automated optimized workflows, personalized experience & intelligent
predictive maintenance.

Read More
AI-ENHANCED WEB & MOBILE APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT

Develop AI-powered mobile applications for iOS and Android with voice & image
recognition, predictive analytics and adaptive UI adjustments based on user
behavior . Create personalized, engaging and adaptive user experiences like
never before.

Read More
AI-OPTIMIZED ECOMMERCE SOLUTIONS

Boost sales and streamline operations with our AI-driven ecommerce platforms.
With dynamic pricing & inventory management, AI-powered product recommendations
and 24/7 chatbot support you will not only drive conversions but also garner
customer loyalty.

Read More
AI-DRIVEN DEVOPS & CLOUD AUTOMATION

Bring the power of artificial intelligence to your DevOps processes to enhance
the security and reliability of your cloud infrastructure. Accelerate time to
market and reduce operational costs with AI-integrated CI/CD pipeline
optimization, predictive monitoring, and automated cloud resource management.

Read More
SUPER SUCCESS STORIES


NMG powered
tech startup now listed
on NASDAQ

NMG Technologies helped power Adaptive, a tech startup, to its successful
listing on NASDAQ as RGP Hugo.

Drawing from his experience leading companies like Barnes & Noble Inc. and
Corporate Resource Services Inc to become publicly traded companies at NASDAQ,
NMG helped Stephen DelVecchia build a groundbreaking platform that disrupted
the staffing landscape. This online marketplace, designed specifically for
temporary accounting and finance professionals, was officially acquired by
Resources Connection, Inc. (RGP) In 2018.


Steve Delvecchia


VP Digital Engagement,
Resources Connection Inc.


(NASDAQ Listed)


"What set NMG apart from other companies was their experience in managing
complex programs and their strategic insights in the B2B segment. They did an
excellent job throughout the whole project and provided a level of assurance
and comfort in their abilities that others could not match"

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


CLIENT SPEAK


Your Journey, Our Expertise:
Results-Driven Successful Partnerships

"NMG is my sigh of relief. Finding an SEO agency, you can trust to create
data-driven, Advanced SEO and Content Marketing strategies while staying
focused on your unique business and achieving the desired results is rare. The
personal attention they give to our projects and their ownership over the
results help us fulfill our mission to enable every person on Earth to travel
freely."
Mohak Nahta
CEO and Founder, Atlys Inc
“If you are looking for a company that truly cares about your business and your
success, look no further than NMG. Their team is knowledgeable, trustworthy,
and committed to delivering results that exceed expectations.”
Mihir Trivedi
Head of Marketing
“NMG Technologies provided a detailed specification document and appropriate
software solutions from the outset, delivering results very close to the
original proposal. The team was available to discuss issues, replied promptly
to emails, and provided constant updates.”

Sai Karan Vedulla
London & Partners,
VP & Chief Representative

"What set NMG apart from other companies was their experience in managing
complex programs and their strategic insights in the B2B segment. They did an
excellent job throughout the whole project and provided a level of assurance
and comfort in their abilities that others could not match"

Steve Delvecchia
VP Digital Engagement,
Resources Connection Inc.
(NASDAQ Listed)

OUR PARTNERS


Our Blog

NMG builds custom software development solutions that drive measurable growth
for businesses, at scale

Purchase Now
Discover More


NMG Technologies to Participate in Mobile Word Capital Barcelona – the world’s
largest and most influential connectivity event

MWC 2024 is all set to take place in Barcelona with its huge showcase of
enterprise solutions between 26-29 February 2024.

FEB 16, 2024 12:30:00 PM


NMG Technologies Participated in Softwave 2023, The Republic of Korea Software
Exhibition

The Softwave, software exhibition happened in Seoul from 29 November-1 December
2023. The event featured a range of encompassing a variety....

NOV 29, 2023 2:12:00 PM


NMG to Participate in the Largest Tech Expo in the Middle East - GITEX Global
2023, Dubai

GITEX Global 2023 is all set to take place in Dubai with its huge showcase of
enterprise solutions between 16-20 October 2023.

SEP 4, 2023 2:38:35 PM

VIEW MORE