Skip to content

Search


AI Development

"Optimise your business workflows with our comprehensive
AI development services"

    • SOLUTIONS
    • Artificial Intelligence
Solution


Accelerate Business Growth with Our Expansive AI Development Services.

Reach new levels of performance by leveraging generative AI in your system. NMG
Technologies helps businesses transform, harnessing the power of advanced AI in
their current infrastructure. With our expertise in AI software development,
organizations get streamlined operations, better scalability, improved accuracy
and faster outcomes. Propel your business growth and unlock new revenue streams
with AI innovation, utilizing it for automation and data-driven decisions.


AI Development Services We Provide.

Our comprehensive suite of AI Development Services, designed to drive
efficiency and innovation, includes

Custom AI Solutions
Our tailored AI models focus on high-impact applications like predictive
analytics and recommendation systems and are seamlessly integrated into your
system to deliver smarter, faster outcomes.
Machine Learning
Tap into AI predictive analysis, based on efficiently analyzed data sets and
advanced algorithm implementation, that enable your systems to have valuable
data-driven insights and drive innovation in your business.
Deep Learning
Get precise, actionable insights from scalable and adaptable AI deep learning
solutions. To significantly boost predictive accuracy in your system, we deploy
intelligent automation and advanced AI-powered decision-making tools.
Natural Language Processing
We employ NLP models and advanced AI algorithms for applications like chatbots,
and sentiment analysis, to close the divide between human language and computer
comprehension and enable faster communication with intuitive interactions.
Computer Vision and OCR
We help businesses make smarter decisions & increase efficiency with custom
computer vision solutions that analyze images & videos & deliver actionable
insights. Integrating these into workflows, you can process and interpret
visual data accurately and speedily.
Robotic Process Automation
We employ AI development tools to optimize & automate repetitive operations &
boost efficiency. RPA software interacts with digital systems as humans do and
lets you allocate your resources toward strategizing for business scaling.
Generative AI
Our expert generative AI development services help businesses leverage simple
user interfaces to create high-quality content, graphics and video via prompts.
We aid you in utilizing AI for advanced content generation, intelligent virtual
assistance & more.
AI Chatbot Development
We offer AI-powered advanced chatbot development and integration across
multiple platforms, websites and applications. These conversational chatbots
deliver quality client interactions, enhance customer support and keep the user
rightly engaged.
AI Integration
We assist you in effortlessly integrating the latest AI technologies into your
current systems and workflows. Through automation and data analysis, you are
able to make data-driven decisions, have better efficiency & enhance customer
experience by many notches.
AI Security
By availing of AI-enabled data security, your business builds walls protecting
it from virtual breaches. We develop AI software that analyses data, identifies
malware and vulnerabilities and provides robust security.
Technology Stack


NMG Technologies creates AI-driven solutions with the following as its core
technologies.

    • Languages
    • Databases
    • Libraries
    • Frameworks
    • Python

      A versatile language known for its readability and extensive libraries.
      R for statistical computing,

    • Java
      A robust and widely used language for enterprise-level applications.
    • C++
      Known for its speed and efficiency, it is ideal for computationally
      intensive AI tasks.
    • MySQL
      A widely used open-source relational database system for structured data.
    • PostgreSQL
      A powerful and feature-rich open-source relational database for advanced
      SQL features.
    • MongoDB
      A popular document-oriented database, offering flexibility and
      scalability for handling unstructured data.
    • TensorFlow
      An open-source library to train and run deep neural networks.
    • PyTorch
      A fully featured framework for building deep learning models for dynamic
      neural networks.
    • Scikit-learn
      The most useful library for machine learning in Python for efficient data
      analysis.
    • Keras
      Keras simplifies deep learning.
    • Apache Spark
      Apache Spark accelerates big data processing,
    • Hadoop
      Hadoop scales data storage and analysis.
Process


Our AI Development Process.

At NMG Technologies, we follow a structured approach toward AI development. Our
AI software development process includes the following steps:
    • 01
      Discovery & Planning
      We comprehend your business objectives to determine which AI approach is
      suited for your needs and align our strategies to your unique
      requirements.
    • 02
      Algorithm Selection
      We outline the scope and suggest the most apt AI platform and algorithm
      for the domain and iteratively train the model to hone its performance
      and predictive capabilities.
    • 03
      Development
      AI models are developed using cutting-edge tech., advanced algorithms and
      large datasets to create intelligent systems that are capable of solving
      complex problems efficiently.
    • 04
      Integration
      Custom AI solutions are strategically deployed into the existing systems
      considering their scalability and compatibility. The seamless integration
      of AI models for maximum efficiency and minimum disruptions is ensured.
    • 05
      Testing & Quality Assurance
      We run integration tests, performance tests, and security tests to ensure
      AI Model’s stability and reliability. For this, the real-time monitoring
      of AI models is done to track performance metrics.
    • 06
      Model Maintenance
      Regular maintenance routines are established so performance degradation,
      if there is any, can be addressed. The changes to the model are made
      based on the feedback and evolving data.
    • 07
      Scale and Iterate
      The performance of the AI model is continuously monitored and user
      feedback is taken into account for scaling and modifying to accommodate
      changing business demands.


AI Solutions for Industries.

Being an expert AI development agency, we help strengthen your business
intelligence via AI applications. We build AI software that has revolutionized
diverse sectors and increased our tailored AI solutions, addressing specific
industry needs effectively

    • Healthcare
      We utilize AI expertise and applications such as computer vision to
      analyze medical data and improve care and health outcomes. AI is used in
      remote patient monitoring, personalized care, drug discovery and
      efficient healthcare management
    • Finance
      We use Fintech AI software to analyze datasets to detect fraud, manage
      risk, evaluate potential investment and weigh in asset allocation.
    • Retail & Ecommerce
      AI software is coupled with e-commerce development for inventory
      management and demand forecasting, personalized shopping experiences,
      virtual try-ons and price monitoring.
    • Edtech

      AI can deliver administrative efficiency by optimizing curriculum
      planning. It can be used to provide automated grading, personalize
      learning paths and more.

AI Development


Why Choose NMG as Your AI Development Company?

NMG Technologies empowers businesses with cutting-edge AI solutions, including
intelligent chatbots, predictive analytics, and sophisticated machine learning
algorithms. Our team of expert developers crafts robust AI software tailored to
your specific industry needs. We deliver customized solutions that drive
tangible results. Choose NMG as your AI partner for our unparalleled expertise,
innovative AI solutions and exceptional client handling.

client speak


Your Journey, Our Expertise:
Results-Driven Successful Partnerships

"NMG is my sigh of relief. Finding an SEO agency, you can trust to create
data-driven, Advanced SEO and Content Marketing strategies while staying
focused on your unique business and achieving the desired results is rare. The
personal attention they give to our projects and their ownership over the
results help us fulfill our mission to enable every person on Earth to travel
freely."
Mohak Nahta
CEO and Founder, Atlys Inc
“If you are looking for a company that truly cares about your business and your
success, look no further than NMG. Their team is knowledgeable, trustworthy,
and committed to delivering results that exceed expectations.”
Mihir Trivedi
Head of Marketing
“NMG Technologies provided a detailed specification document and appropriate
software solutions from the outset, delivering results very close to the
original proposal. The team was available to discuss issues, replied promptly
to emails, and provided constant updates.”

Sai Karan Vedulla
London & Partners,
VP & Chief Representative

"What set NMG apart from other companies was their experience in managing
complex programs and their strategic insights in the B2B segment. They did an
excellent job throughout the whole project and provided a level of assurance
and comfort in their abilities that others could not match"

Steve Delvecchia
VP Digital Engagement,
Resources Connection Inc.
(NASDAQ Listed)

Our Awards


Recognitions & Awards.

Our Process


Our Blogs.

We guide you from concept to launch of your successful Magento online store.
Our iterative Magento development process focuses on collaboration and
flexibility.


Never Miss a Goal with Koora Break!

Developed by NMG Technologies, Experience Football Like Never Before with Saudi
Arabia's Award-Winning Soccer App.

February 23, 2024

Read More


NMG Technologies to Participate in Mobile Word Capital Barcelona – the world’s
largest and most influential connectivity event

NMG Technologies to Participate in Mobile Word Capital Barcelona – the world’s
largest and most influential connectivity event

February 16, 2024

Read More


NMG Technologies Participated in Softwave 2023, The Republic of Korea Software
Exhibition

NMG Technologies Participated in Softwave 2023, The Republic of Korea Software
Exhibition

November 29, 2023

Read More
Support


FAQ’s.


What is development AI? What are the 4 stages of AI?

AI development involves complex algorithms & large-scale data to train systems
to perform human tasks. Data collection, processing & analysis, decision-making
and automation are the four key stages of AI.


What's the difference between AI and machine learning models?

AI focuses on creating machines that perform tasks that need human intelligence
like visual perception, decision-making and natural language processing while
Machine Learning (ML) is a subset of AI that involves machines analyzing the
data and making predictions without being programmed.


Which platform is best for AI development?

Popular platforms include TensorFlow, Microsoft Azure AI, Google Vertex AI and
more.


How do you ensure the security of an AI project?

The security of AI projects is ensured through data encryption, secure model
training and regular threat modeling.


How can integrating artificial intelligence benefit my business?

AI can enhance efficiency, perform predictive analysis, offer personalization
and reduce operational costs.


How much does it cost to hire an AI developer?

AI development cost depends on the scope and complexity of the project. It
varies from $5,000 to $500,000 for simple to complex projects.