Skip to content

Search


Create App - Detailed Guide to App UI Design for Mobile App Developers

Mobile Development

1. Today most of the time is spent consuming digital media on mobile apps.
2. Users are spending about 90 percent of their time using applications on
mobile devices.
3. Around 85 percent of users prefer native mobile apps on mobile.
4. About 42 percent of mobile sales of Fortune 500 organizations are done
through mobile apps.

Table of Content

Chapter 2


CHAPTER 1

Let's get started by understanding the basics of the mobile application.
In this chapter, we will cover the basics of the mobile application.

This chapter will provide answers to questions like "What is a mobile
application?" and you will get to know Why is the mobile app important for
business?

You will get to know, "How does a mobile application work?" and "What are the
advantages and disadvantages of mobile apps?"

If you are a business owner and want to know "How apps benefit businesses?" and
"What are the types of mobile applications?" then this chapter is for you.
In the end, we will also discuss, "What is a mobile enterprise application
platform?"

Mobile applications are the future of how businesses will work. Today most of
the big players in the market are having mobile apps either on Play Store or on
their website.


What is a mobile application?

A mobile application is a portable version of applications or software accessed
on laptops or PCs with the help of internet connectivity. These mobile
applications provide you with similar functions that you access on PCs.

Mobile Application Definition (Technical): A mobile application or mobile app
is the term used to describe a software application that works on a mobile
device.

Mobile applications take full advantage of the hardware and software of mobile
devices. For instance, a gaming application can take advantage of the iPhone's
accelerometer.

Mobile applications are developed to help users perform the activities that
they perform on desktops or laptops.

Generally, mobile apps are categorized into three categories:

   1. A native app is developed for any specific operating system like iOS or
      Android.
   2. Web App is the responsive version of websites that run on multi-platform
      (iOS & Android both).
   3. Hybrid App is developed by combining the aspects of both native
      applications and web applications.

Did you know that there are more than 2.2 million applications on the App
Store, and 2.6 million applications are placed on the Play Store?
In the year 2020, mobile apps (iOS and Android) revenue is expected around $581
billion.

Image source - (Worldwide mobile app revenues from 2014 to 2023. Source:
Statista)

Today, there are more than 3.8 billion smartphone users in the whole world, and
each of them is using applications installed on their devices.

Image source - (Worldwide smartphone users from 2016-2021. Source: Statista)

After having a look at these statistics, you can quickly figure out how mobile
applications are beneficial for business. Now let's discuss how mobile apps
work.


How does a mobile application work?

Technically, a mobile application is a software that is designed to perform any
particular task on mobile, either online or offline. But do you know how mobile
apps work?

Mobile devices have limited hardware resources; thus, multiple tasks are
avoided by an application.

To make it simple, mobile applications enable users to choose the particular
activity that they can accomplish with their devices.

A basic mobile application is based on a software architecture that runs on a
PC or laptop and gets carefully migrated to work on smartphones. But this
technique will not be useful when the mobile application is more sophisticated
or complex.

The working of a mobile application depends on its type and functions. For
example, there are three types of mobile apps where the working process of one
app is entirely different from web apps and hybrid apps.

The above image is the technical working of a mobile application. To understand
the functional operation of a mobile app in detail, you can check this article
of Codeproject.

After having an in-depth overview of the working of a basic mobile application,
it's time to move forward to understand how different types of applications
work and interact with the users.

Types of mobile applications and how they work.

Native App
A native app is specially designed for particular operating systems or
platforms like iOS or Android. It is the reason that a native app can take full
advantage of the device hardware and software.

These applications work with the operating system of mobile devices that
enables the applications to perform more flexibly and quickly than alternative
application types.

Native mobile applications synchronize the information directly from mobile
devices to apps and vice-versa. It is the reason native applications are fast.

If the application needs to be published to users of different device types and
OS, the developers create a separate native app version to accomplish the needs
in a fast and effective manner.

Some of the examples of native applications are Mail, Contact, Store, Photos,
Music, and many more. These apps are preinstalled on Android or iOS devices
since a native application is designed to work with the device OS.

Native iOS and Android applications are mostly built on Swift and Java. These
days, developers also use Xamarin to develop cross-platform native apps.

Web App
Web Application is the responsive version of a website that seamlessly runs on
multi-platform (iOS & Android both).
These applications work by syncing the information from the webserver and
database. This information or data is transferred with the help of the internet
through the browser interface.

The working speed of a web app depends upon the speed of the internet because,
in web applications, the information is synchronized from mobile devices to
servers and vice-versa.

An organization can make a web application for any purpose. Generally, this
includes online calculators, webmail, online stores, and more.

You don't need to download the web applications as these are easily accessed
through a network. Web browsers like Mozilla, Chrome, Safari, etc. play a
significant role in easy access to these types of applications.

The best thing is, you can develop a web application with a small team of
developers since web applications have a short development cycle.

Another reason for the fast development of web applications is that these are
built using HTML5, JavaScript CSS and other programming languages as per
requirement.

Hybrid App
Hybrid App is made with the qualities of both native application and web
application.

A hybrid app is a web application that is embedded in a native shell
application.

The hybrid application works the same way as the web application. The only
difference is, it can easily be accessed and downloaded natively on different
platforms.

The hybrid app is made using Javascript, CSS, and HTML5, where the entire code
runs inside the container.


Why is the mobile app important for business?

According to a survey in the United States, 68% of the population use
smartphones. It means that people are now increasingly using post-PC products
and services.

"Did you know that 81% of smartphone users search for services and products
online out of which 26% search for that product using mobile apps".

After realizing the importance of mobile business, most of the large and
small-medium companies have built their mobile applications.

Companies that have developed apps for their businesses are at leading
positions in their sectors and taking their marketing strategy to the next
level.

There are a lot of benefits to mobile applications for your business. We will
discuss five significant benefits that will provide a better overview.

But before starting with the discussion, let get started with this
infographics:


Now we will discuss all the 5 five benefits of mobile application development.

Better Visibility
On average, a smartphone owner spends at least 162 minutes on his mobile every
day. This also includes the time he/she spent on scrolling through the
application.

According to a fact of science, our brain continuously records every image,
text, or any type of visual item we go through. This means that if a smartphone
is having your application installed, it will increase your brand or product's
visibility.

You can also send promotional offers to your customer on an app; this will keep
your customers engaged.

Increases Customer Loyalty
When a smartphone user has applications installed on his device, businesses can
connect with the customers directly through a mobile app.

This is one of the essential reasons for designing mobile apps, which provides
customer loyalty.

In comparison with social media ads, banners and email marketing, in-app ads,
and promotions have more significant impacts on your customer.

If a customer has a positive impact on your services or products, this will
result in increased brand loyalty.

Better Brand Recognition
Mobile applications help create brand awareness among your customers.

The more you engage with customers on your mobile application, the more brand
recognition you will receive. Consequently, customers will buy more
products/services from you.

All you have to do is to create an app with features that are beautifully
integrated and well-branded so that your app users will like it.

Direct platform for marketing
A mobile application provides functions like information about you and your
products/services, booking forms, prices, user accounts, search features,
feeds, and many more.

Mobile App provides to send your promotions and sales to your targeted customer
only. You can also send them to push notifications that will provide even more
direct communication with the reminders and promotions.


Increase in profit
When a customer is satisfied, it directly results in sales. An increase in
customer satisfaction always results in more sales and profit.



What are the advantages and disadvantages of mobile apps?

Mobile applications have changed the way of doing business. Customers find it
easy to get information about their favorite brand or product on their
fingertips within seconds.

There are a lot of companies that are planning to create mobile apps. But not
everyone is aware of the advantages and disadvantages of mobile apps. Some of
them are also confused with the type of app that is the best for their
business.

NMG Technologies decided to emphasize both advantages of mobile apps and
disadvantages a variety of mobile applications that include: Native App, Web
App, and Hybrid App.

Native App
Native app is a platform-specific app which is designed on platform-specific
software. An android app is built on the Java platform, and an iOS app is built
on Swift or Objective C.

With this infographic, you will understand the advantages and disadvantages of
Native Application:


However, native applications are quick, smooth, have complete access to the
device, and can work without the internet, but still, these become challenging
to develop.

These challenges include the time-consuming development process and higher
development costs. These make it hard for those businesses that have less
spending plans and additional time.


Web Applications
A web app is designed for mobile devices. It uses web technologies and web
browsers to perform the task.

Web Applications are built on HTML5 and Javascript.

Advantages and Disadvantages of Web Apps


A web application may not be able to perform tasks for every organization.

Hybrid Apps
The hybrid app is made up of the properties of both native applications and web
applications. A hybrid app is a web application embedded in a native shell
application.

The hybrid application works similar to a web application and effectively runs
as a native application. These are available in downloadable formats. The
hybrid app is built on JavaScript, CSS or HTML5. In a hybrid application, the
code runs inside the container.

Here are the advantages and disadvantages of Hybrid Apps:


Considering the advantages and disadvantages of web applications, we can
conclude that web applications are a preferable choice for small and medium
businesses with low cost and less development time.


How apps benefit businesses?
What are entrepreneurs searching for every day? They are looking for solutions
for the questions like "How would I improve proficiency, manufacture a
dedicated client-base and get increased sales?"

In today's scenario, when most of the customers around the world are using
smartphones, a mobile application is the solution to all the questions.

A mobile application is an approach to accommodate a variety of tasks. So, no
matter whether you want to do your banking, access information, monitor your
home, play games, communicate and interact with local businesses, you can do it
all by only having the corresponding mobile app.


Top benefits of mobile apps for businesses looking for an increase in sales:

Geo-targeting and direct communication marketing
It is one of the significant benefits of mobile apps. Through this, marketers
can directly send the promotions and sales deals to the targeted customers.

You can also send them push notifications with the reminders and promotions
that will provide even more direct communication.

Direct communication helps in bringing important information like geographical
locations, demographics, and customer's buying behavior related to your
services and products. This helps you in making strategies according to the
customer actions.


Increases brand recognition
Mobile applications help create brand awareness among the customers.

You'll see an increase in brand awareness when you engage with customers via
mobile application. Consequently, customers will buy more products/services
from you.

All you need to do is to create a feature-rich app that is beautifully composed
and well-branded to cater to your business needs.


Increases customer loyalty
With mobile applications, businesses can incorporate various types of loyalty
programs. Generally, the loyalty programs are designed to bring clients back by
giving them some discounts or personal gift vouchers and also to make them
aware of your recently launched product/service.

Prizes can be utilized in various manners, including levels of tier. It urges
your clients to seek after different levels with additional perk to the one at
the top.

In comparison with social media ads, banners, and email marketing, in-app ads,
and promotions have more significant impacts on your customer, which results in
increased customer loyalty.


Boost brand visibility and awareness
A smartphone user keeps scrolling through the device most of the time in a day.
It will make your brand visible through your app, and this helps in increasing
the sales and revenue.


Better customer engagement
Communication is critical in any business, whether it's business to customer or
customer to business.

Every customer wants their complaint and concerns to be heard and solved in a
short time. If you do so, it will result in better customer engagement and an
increase in brand loyalty.

All these benefits of mobile apps will push you toward mobile application
development. Make sure you choose the best mobile application idea that caters
to your business objectives, requirements, and budget.

What are the types of mobile applications

There are three types of mobile applications:

Native App
A native app is a platform-specific app designed on platform-specific software.
An Android app is built on the Java platform, and an iOS app is built on Swift
or Objective C.


Web App
A web app is an application designed for mobile devices and uses web
technologies and web browsers to perform tasks. Web applications are built on
HTML5 and JavaScript.


Hybrid App
The hybrid app is made up of the properties of both native applications and web
applications. A hybrid app is a web application embedded in a native shell
application.

What is a mobile enterprise application platform?

MEAP (mobile enterprise application platforms) is a development suite th at
provides middleware and tools to design, test, install, and manage enterprise
applications on mobile devices.

Mobile enterprise application platform works as both mobile development
platform as well as mobile application management platform for enterprise
mobility apps. It ultimately lets the app developers build applications for
different platforms.

Rule of Three
According to Gartner, organizations consider the MEAP approach when they want :

    • More than three mobile apps
    • More than three OS (operating system) for mobile
    • Integration with minimum three back-end data sources

Features of MEAP
There are two crucial MEAP:

    • A back-end web service and mobile app development environment to deal
      with the mobile applications and link them to databases and enterprise
      apps.
    • A centralized management segment, which empowers admin to control the
      client who can access an app and the databases. It also controls where
      the app can fetch information.

Now, as we have enough knowledge about mobile apps, so in the next chapter, we
will discuss how mobile apps are made by using the proven process of Mobile App
Development.