Technology


Top Web Building Tools and Platforms

Looking for user-friendly website building platforms that help you manage your
website? Here’s the list of top website building tools & platforms for 2019.

Nishtha
Nov 16, 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 15 minutes

If you are looking forward to getting your own web application for your
business, don’t just pony up the cash and go to a web developer. Before you do
that, you need to know all about web development so that your investment is
best used.

I know you’ve already looked up online for some web design inspiration, there
are a billions of them out there to choose from.

What have you decided?

What platform do you think suits your business?

What tools you should be using?

To help you figure out which is the best website builder for you, we’ve put
together a really interesting line-up of our favorite tools and platforms so
that you can choose the right one for your business.

Remember, every free website builder on this list also offers a set of premium
packages, which could make your website even better.

Options like expanded storage and bandwidth, as well as features often lacking
from their free counterparts.

Premium plans also remove unwanted ads on your webpage and removes the
subdomain housed in your website URL, which is a must if you’re breaking into a
professional field.

But if you ask me, you get what you pay for.

Which also doesn’t mean that you need to spend a load to have a great website,
so it is important to consider how professional you want your website to look.

Put in a little effort to know what tools and platforms makes a good website
with little amount to spend.

I guess its time to check out some of the coolest and best free website builder
for small business.

Webydo

Webydo offers really advanced cloud hosting, standard- compliant code, and a
Photoshop-like design studio where you can work your magic.

If you are a professional designer, it is easy to create and manage a stunning
responsive website, that too code-free.

When you use Webydo, you can add any file type to the media library and then
incorporate videos, shapes, texts, and even ecommerce widgets for online stores
in their site design.

They’ve also introduced a brand new feature hovering elements that always slay
on screen whenever you are scrolling down.

Let’s take a look at an e-commerce platform.

Shopify

If you are planning on building an ecommerce website, Shopify is arguably the
king of e-commerce based platforms.

It currently powers over half a million e-commerce websites world-wide, even
though the best options are not really for free, it offers some of the most
flexible and most affordable plans that will work for you whether you have a
really small business or something much larger.

It offers a ton of templates and themes you could choose from, so that you can
out your store together exactly as you want, and if you think you might need
something more advanced in the future, it’s really easy to find an expert to
help you.

Its prices start from $29 per month.

WIX

You will find this website builder in almost every blog recommending the best
website builders.

Learn More about Our Web Development Services

While wix offers more flexibility in terms of customization over other website
builders, the unbridled freedom also makes it easier to create lackluster
designs if you don’t know what you’re doing.

But wix will not allow you to revert to older version of your website by using
site history which you need to keep an eye on, and includes robust integration
with a wide array of third-party services like calendars and Instagram feeds.

Moreover, the service allows you to separately customize an accompanying mobile
site.

However, Wix doesn’t allow you to switch templates if you’ve already stated a
project and it only offers 500MB of storage and 1GB of bandwidth if you opt for
the free package.

Nevertheless, you could always upgrade them including domain tools, and the
prices range from $5 to $25 per month.

Visual Composer

The Visual composer is the most popular drag and drop page builder that makes
pages layouts and front-end and back-end editing so much easier.

Most of the complex page layout could be created in minutes by editing and
adding columns and rows of text, photos and many other elements with a single
click.

The page features in Visual Composer are known as elements and there are
endless possibilities provided that are easy to select.

Elements include rows and columns, buttons, text, borders, shading, images and
much more.

Dunked

If you are looking for something which makes you standout of the crowd, it’s
Dunked!
It lets you create some of the most beautiful and responsive online portfolio
without even touching a line of code.

Dunked provides responsive designs that are retina ready and allow you to
create an online portfolio without any coding difficulties as mentioned before.

You can choose from a growing collection of professionally designed templates,
that are pixel-perfect, customizable and easy to use.

Each template in Dunked is fully responsive and will adapt itself to any kind
of mobile device from an iPad to any kind of Android device.

Adjusting layout, colours and typography using a selection of preset options;
there’s also advanced CSS editing for those familiar with website markup.

Edicy

Edicy is a tool for managing your content and offers website hosting and
building services through a cloud-based platform.

Web developers, design agencies and anyone else can gain access to host of its
paid or free features.

Web browsers like Chrome, Firefox, Internet explorer, Opera and also Safari are
some of them Edicy supports, although Edicy can generally support on most of
the browsers which are not mentioned earlier.

ALLYOU

ALLYOU is an online portfolio tool for creatives.

It is very easy to use and easily customizable; you could literally feel like a
web designer with this tool.

The services are free including cloud hosting and they have a lot of upgrade
options to offer for professionals which aren’t for free ofcourse.

Squarespace

Squarespace will get you a lot of attention; it helps you create some of the
most out of the box designs and for a good reason.

It’s designs are sleek and full of features, beautiful and also inexpensive.
It only costs you about $12 per months for the basic package, with rates
topping out at $40 a month for its commerce package.

But the $12 a month nets you unlimited storage and bandwidth, but a restriction
to 20 pages. You also have full e-commerce integration and an included SSL
security certificate.

The more expensive packages offer a greater number of pages, as well as lower
transaction fees and free AdWords credits.

The modern website builder allows you to create an HTML5-compliant site with a
heavy focus in commerce, yet, it also hits its stride when it comes to
analytics tools and its resounding ability to accommodate mobile devices.

Buttons for adding and editing content line the left-hand side of the
straightforward interface, as well a button for quickly previewing how your
content will look once it is live, all of which follow to your respective theme.

Squarespace’s integration with third-party widgets isn’t as impressive as other
website builders, but the Developer platform does give competent users the
ability to insert their own HTML, CSS and JavaScript coding if they want to add
further functionality to their site.

They also provide some very informative tutorials for importing pages from
other sites and moreover, provides forums and even workshops to get you up to
speed regarding nearly all aspects of the site.

However, you cannot customize the mobile experience and the platform lacks
on-page ad tools, but there are a lot to be said for its hands-off approach and
immense selling capabilities.

Voog

Voog is built on a simple drag and drop interface that’s reliant on the
horizontal menu bar located at the bottom of the page, one that gives you the
option of adding text, movies and photo galleries.

But it has only a handful of themes to choose from, but each theme is amazingly
responsive and optimized for whatever the platform users might be using, be it
an iPad or a smartphone.

If you are someone who is looking for a more customizable platform, you might
be a bit disappointed, though it renders the site as one of the easiest to use
for people who have no idea about designing.

However, the silver lining of Voog is its multilingual component, an option
which lets you create or translate your site in different languages around the
globe.

Few services offer such a feature, which makes the platform a standout for
about 6 Euros a month, if you are planning up an international web based store,
you will receive 2 GB of storage and access to the open API for the price,
while offerings that are more expensive bestow you with additional storage and
pages.

WordPress

WordPress is arguably the best custom website builder, not just in the list but
globally. more than 60% of the custom websites out there are built on WordPress.

Started as a platform for blogs it is now a platform for any kind of website,
you name it WordPress could make it, from e-commerce to business websites
WordPress has it.

I don’t think any platform in the world could possibly offer the amount of
customizable features as wordpress, the number of templates, themes and plugins
are infinite.

The learning curve is steep, but hey! what about the long-term capabilities and
the level of customization it offers. However, wordpress excels when it comes
to ready-made themes, mobile-optimized templates and widgets that allow you to
include everything from comments to images.

WordPress also has features replicating Google Analytics, which will help you
track the numbers coming in on your website, and most importantly 3GB of
storage space and unlimited bandwidth.

Jimdo

If you want to create a site for free without getting hobbled by a lack of
features, give Jimdo a try.

All of its plans offer everything you need to create a professional-looking
HTML5 – powered website, including templates, photo galleries, google maps
integration, plenty of storage and unlimited bandwidth and its easy to put
everything together.

Step up to one of its paid services starting from $5 per month and you will get
your own domain,
an online store, widgets and stats.

BigCommerce

BigCommerce is a great way to create a beautiful ecommerce website with off the
shelf responsive templates featuring plenty of customization options.

Its storefront editor enables you to change your site’s look without coding,
while you can also go completely custom using HTML, CSS and other code
libraries.

The basic plan will cost you $29 per month for a full features online store,
and if your business takes off then BigCommerce can scale to suit your needs.

Tumblr

In the whole list, Tumbler is the least complex tool. But it also has a very
limited selection of built-in tools, it’s not fit for something like a web
storefront or a forum.
But if all you are looking for is a static page or a basic blog, the service
might be just what you need.

It’s useful for handling simple text and images with periodic updates, it works
just fine.
Even though its toolset is similar to competitors like bloggers, the interface
is much more user-friendly.

Regardless of a simple setup, Tumblr themes are surprisingly customizable.

There are thousands of free and paid options available across the web,
including those posted on Tumbler’s native service and other available for
manual installation.

Users can customize any theme, including the default ones, though you would be
needing a working knowledge of HTML and CSS to make any extensive modifications
work.

But Tumbler is completely free, including hosting and bandwidth – the service
has no premium tiers. Analytical tools are lacking, but users can connect
individual Tumblr sites to a custom domain for free.

Strikingly

Strikingly claims that you could build a website in 30mins using their tools,
and not just a website but also a beautiful one.

Sounds a little optimistic for those with no website building experience, its
extensive list of positive reviews and testimonials would suggest its
developers aren’t just blowing hot air.

Major takeaway from strikingly is that it’s very much focused on single-page
websites.

Although that’s not to everyone’s tastes, it’s something that a lot of other
website builders make more complicated that it needs to be.

If that’s the kind of site you want to put together, strikingly is one of the
best.

It offers 25 themes to pick from, and that numbers are growing though. But
there are limitations on font choices and coloring, for the most part the
editing tool has enough options that you can differentiate your site from your
fellow strikingly users.

With a very simple free package for those who want to try out the service,
Strikingly offers $8 and $16 per month packages which are far from extortionate
and offer access to the website building tool and some interesting features.

 Learn about How To Make Faster Web Applications  With AngularJs

Each offers a bundled domain name and registration, ecommerce store access and
24/7 support.

Blog support is limited compared to the likes of WordPress, but it’s there and
Strikingly has its own iOS and Android applications so you can edit your
website and view analytics while on the go.

IM Creator

The IM Creator was introduced in 2011 and ever since its release, it became one
of the top HTML5 website builders online. The IM Creator hosts a huge library
of stunning website templates in a long list of categories from sports to
medicines to business and academics

You can start using IM creator immediately after registering for free.

Start off with a blank page or choose a design of your choice from a library
which contains hundreds of customizable website templates.

Since it is an HTML5 website builder, every website you create with it should
work fine with all major mobile platforms.

These tools and platforms might make your job easy and not put a hole in your
pocket.

However, there is a downside to most of these services.

One fine day you might change your mind or bored of the current host and you
would want to migrate to another one. Then my friend you will likely be out of
luck.

 Looking for SaaS Application Development Services

Why?
Because of the custom code they use to display your site.

Only a few services let you take your site to another web hosting service.

The most complete example of this is Weebly, which lets you download the
standard site server folders. Squarespace offers some transferability by
letting you output your site in standard WordPress format, which you could take
to another provider that specializes in managed WordPress hosting.

Bold Grid, which doesn’t currently make the cut off for this table, also offer
ability to transfer some elements of your site.

Conclusion

Well guys! As you’ve just seen a number of beautiful tools and platforms you
could choose from for building your custom website, a few factors are to be
considered when choosing one of them.

You need to know everything about your website first and then choose the tool
and not the other way around.

Experimenting is good but it consumes a lot of time. So, spend time to
determine the tool for your website and then get started.

But hey! If you need more advice on this, comment down below.

Moreover, if you want us to build a cool web application for you, Contact Us!

Request Free Pricing
Technology


Similar posts

Design


Web Design Best Practices – 10 Stunning Examples

Is your website engaging enough for visitors? Keep your page looking fresh by
following these best website design practices for your website in 2022.

Nishtha Sep 10, 2017
Growth


How to Break up with your old website – it’s time to get a new one!

Using a strategy that fits into your workflow is an essential part of a
successful website redesign. Here's the list of website redesign process for...

Nishtha Oct 5, 2017
Featured


Increase your website traffic to 50% more by following these simple design
trends

Want to increase your website traffic? Read on to know the strategies to
increase your website traffic by 50% in 2019!

Nishtha Aug 4, 2017


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.