Mobile


7 Best Mobile App Analytics Tools – Which one suits you?

App analytics are the key to understand how your mobile app is performing. We
share 7 Top mobile app analytics tools to help you decide which one to use.

Nishtha
Mar 25, 2015
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 4 minutes

Now that you have an app, how do you know its working for you?
Analytics are a necessary tool for any new app in order to get information
about how the app is doing with number of downloads, or number of crashes.

We present here some top mobile app/ android app analytics tools which you can
use for your app. Some of these tools also include tracking to find out how and
where the app is being used.

This data is very helpful in creating marketing plans.

Our blog will help you select the right mobile app analytics platform for your
app. Some Key takeaways:

    • Setting up analytics after launching will leave you with loss of data.
    • Not all analytics tools are made for every app.
    • Analytics like Playtomic is good for a gaming app and Localytics might be
      better with a content delivery app.
    • Start with the numbers you need to know.
    • Remember your customers may not use the app in exactly the way you
      expected it to be used.

 Learn More About  Mobile App Development Services

Testflightapp – Is a great app analytics tool when you are in the beta test
phase of your app.  Testflightapp offers an SDK for tracking your testers, a
desktop app for detecting new iOS archives and dSYMs to hand out to testers.


Localytics – World class analytics that find out how often people visit the
app, what they are doing in the app, why users aren’t converting , and find out
if different users use the app differently than others.

Mixpanel – Uses an SQL database to present data to you. You can ask any
question of the data with all of the metrics that they track.

 Learn More About  App Store Optimization Tips

Google Mobile App Analytics – Is a free mobile application analytics software
platform from a well known name in website analytics.  Google presents the
entire picture of a customer, what attracts new customers and retains present
ones.

Countly – Is a true realtime tool tracking thousands of apps on their servers. 
Watch what a change in the app makes with your users in realtime with Countly .

Flurry – Is a renowned analytics platform in the market with a free mobile
dedicated tool giving you the ability to measure engagement, revenues, lifetime
value and more.

App Annie – Works well with the App Store and Google Play.  They offer an
efficient dashboard that makes you able to view revenue, downloads, app ranks ,
and many more.

If Looking for a Mobile App Development Company that can help you to achieve
the core goal you have, beyond developing an app?

NMG, provides world class Mobile App Development that tops the App store

Do check out the portfolio which has a number of successful apps which are live
on both iOS and Play store. Make sure you contact them.

Request a Free Consultation
Mobile


Similar posts

Featured


80% of Apps Do Not Survive More Than A Year – Avoid being that 80%

Why do mobile apps fail? There are a lot of mobile apps that don't make it to
the runway. Find out how to make your app successful with a few tips.

Nishtha Nov 13, 2017
Design


Role Of Wireframes In Mobile App Development

Mobile app development is a complicated process. Wireframing should be the
first step in it. Here's a complete guide for the mobile app wireframe in...

Nishtha Nov 8, 2017
Growth


Top 50 KPIs and Metrics that Matter the Most for your Mobile App

Ready to boost your app usage? Here are 50 critical Mobile App KPIs and Metrics
to improve the performance of your mobile apps. Discover which KPIs...

Nishtha Nov 20, 2017


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.