Skip to content

Search


12-Month Success Story: NMG Boosts Nikon Lenswear's Online Visibility with
600K+ Impressions

Nikon Lenswear, a leading and well-known eyewear brand, faced the challenge of
improving its online visibility and search engine rankings to increase brand
recognition, attract new customers, and drive sales and revenue. They sought
NMG’s expertise to develop and implement an effective SEO and content marketing
strategy to achieve their goals.

Back
Nikon Lenswear approached NMG to build brand recognition and online presence.
NMG worked closely with Nikon Lenswear to develop an Advanced and Data-driven
SEO and Content Strategy to address all their requirements. NMG created a
comprehensive on-site SEO, content creation, and link-building strategy to
position Nikon as a top choice for high-quality eyewear.

With the help of our data-driven approach to SEO and content marketing, Nikon
Lenswear was able to establish a dominant online presence, increase customer
engagement, and drive revenue growth. NMG's expert team of digital marketers
helped Nikon Lenswear create compelling and relevant content that resonated
with their target audience, resulting in increased website traffic, improved
search engine rankings, and an increased conversion rate leading to more sales
and revenue.


SYNOPSIS


16 6 % Increase in Organic traffic

NMG collaborated closely with Nikon Lenswear to develop a data-driven SEO and
Content Marketing strategy . W ith our extensive experience in Advanced SEO,
Content Marketing, and Website Development , Nikon got impressive results .


First, we conducted an extensive website audit to find all the issues with the
website. We also conducted in-depth competitor research to create a winning SEO
and content marketing game plan. Next, we utilized advanced SEO processes like
Low Hanging Fruit, Master Keyword
Research, SEO On-page, Technical SEO, and Link Building to improve the overall
technical health of the website
and its search engine rankings.


RESULTS


166%
Organic Traffic Increased


6k +
Organic Clicks Increase


250 +
Keywords in Top 3


550+
Keywords in Top 10


10, 00, 000 +
Impressions Gained


SCREENSHOTS


ENGAGEMENT HIGHLIGHTS

NMG employed Advanced SEO techniques, conducted a comprehensive SEO audit, and
conducted Master Keyword Research. We also devised a highly effective Content
Marketing Strategy for Nikon Lenswear. We focused on creating SEO-optimized
content for new and existing website pages to drive
traffic and increase their sales revenue. Therefore, we created well-researched
content briefs based on the data we derived from the
results of our advanced SEO processes.

The results of our efforts were remarkable, as we increased their organic
traffic by 166% . In addition, t hrough our data-driven approach of SEO and
Content campaigns , we achieved significant improvements in their website's
search engine rankings and overall online visibility.


Comprehensive SEO audit and advanced competitor research helped us identify
gaps and issues on the website and develop a n SEO strategy to improve their
online visibility.


Based on the advanced SEO audit, we conducted Master keyword Research to create
a data-driven and successful content marketing strategy. We also created we
ll-researched content briefs for website content that focused on all the
factors that must be added to the content to increase website traffic and
higher rankings.


Significant “E-A-T” (Expertise, Authoritativeness, and Trust) improvements were
made to the Nikon Lenswear website by adding information about the different
types of firearms offered by Fusion Firearms. We also added a comprehensive “
About Us ” page with a clearly stated mission and details about the company.


SEO STRATEGY

For Nikon Lenswear, we began with in-depth competitor research and technical
website SEO audit to find critical
issues with their website's structure and SEO.

Therefore, we created an effective SEO and Content Marketing strategy to
address these issues and rank their website on top Google SERPs . We
strategically utilized all the data derived from our advanced SEO processes,
including competitors’ research, Master Keyword research, Low
Hanging Fruit process, Technical SEO, and On-Page SEO . We created hundreds of
data-driven content briefs that clearly state the goal of
writing the individual content piece, the target audience, sub-topics, and all
the required data to rank the content higher.


We began o ur SEO campaigns with an Advanced SEO audit and Competitor Research
to i dentify all the gaps and issues in the client's current SEO and content
strategy. Competitors’ research helped us gain insights into their SEO and
content strategies , helping them attract traffic to their websites and rank
higher in search resu l ts .


W e conducted Master Keyword Research and implemented Low Hanging Fruit
processes to create a content plan for improving keyword ranking from the
bottom of the first page to the top of the first page , which help ed develop
and upgrade existing and new content .


We optimized the header, page title, meta description, and image SEO for
On-page optimization for better results. We also optimized the structured data
on the website by implementing schema tags such as Product Schema, Breadcrumb
Schema, and FAQs Schema, which allowed us to occupy more space on the Google
SERP.


ON-SITE SEO PROBLEMS

As in most cases, the on-site process began with a website audit that indicated
various errors in the website that needed to be corrected. During the audit, we
marked the most threatening elements and started the Advanced SEO process to
eliminate them and achieve desired results .

PROBLEM 1 – LACK OF SEO-BASED CONTENT ON THE WEBSITE
The website lacked SEO-optimized and engaging content throughout its pages that
could educate and inform users about the company’s services and pricing. This
resulted in poor user experience , declining website traffic, low user
engagement, high bounce rates, and poor search engine rankings.

Before –

After – NMG developed a comprehensive content marketing strategy for Nikon
Lenswear . We created informative and engaging content based on data-driven
content briefs for different types of content , including blog posts, service
pages, and landing pages. In addition, t he content was optimized for search
engines, including relevant keywords and phrases, to improve the website's
visibility on SERPs, increasing its traffic by 166%.

PROBLEM 2 – Meta Titles and Descriptions were not optimized

Meta Titles w ere not optimized , and Meta Descriptions were missing on all the
website pages, affecting its ranking in SERPs.

Before -

After – After thorough keyword research, we created and optimized Meta Titles
and Meta Description with their targeted keywords, which led to significant
growth in the website’s visibility and improve d search rankings.  

PROBLEM 3 – THE WEBSITE LACKED CERTAIN SCHEMA MARKUP TAGS.

Before – Schema tags for organization, breadcrumbs, FAQs, etc., were missing
across the website.

After – Therefore, we have implemented relevant schema markup codes and FAQs
across the website.


VERTICAL/INDUSTRY INSIGHTS


To create reliable content, it is crucial to comprehend authoritative data
sources in any vertical. Our team's expertise in utilizing industry datasets is
one example of how we develop trustworthy content for our clients.


The client's willingness to explore various types of content enabled us to
approach the subject of fishing and hunting spots from a broad and specific
perspective.


Brands operating in highly competitive verticals such as the Lenswear
marketplace should concentrate on creating content on related topics that
appeal to a wider audience, thus driving brand engagement.


Mihir Trivedi


Head of marketing


(Nikon Lenswear)


“If you are looking for an SEO agency that truly cares about your business and
your success, look no further than NMG. Their team is knowledgeable,
trustworthy, and committed to delivering results that exceed expectations.”

OUR CLIENTS


NMG is used by 300+ businesses and brands

We’re full service which means we’ve got you covered on digital marketing ,
advanced seo , design , development and content right through to growth

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------