Skip to content

Search


The Modern Application Development Approach

NMG implements a systematic approach where we find effective ways to work as a
collaborative team, helping us transform business processes into an actionable
powerhouse

    • COMPANY
    • Outsourcing


Part Artist

Our artist side understands the difference between a good software and a bad
one – which is usually the quality of its user experience (UX). A good UX is
what separates successful businesses from unsuccessful ones, and to achieve
this, we consider UX to be an essential component of product strategy.


Design Workflow

Designing interactive elements that are familiar and predictable is a
fundamental principle of our UX design approach. When things work in the way
users predict, they feel a stronger sense of control. Understanding how your
customers interact with a page is essential for optimization and as designers
and developers, we keep these goals in consideration to build the entire user
flow.


Responsive By Design

By showing organized information to improve user retain-ability, reducing
clutter to improve comprehension and adding more visual weight to the most
important element on the screen, we create design experiences which are fully
responsive, displays beautifully and works seamlessly across desktop, tablet
and mobile.


Rapid Prototyping

From static layouts to interactive prototypes, we design it all. Suggest
changes/feedbacks to your design with a click of a button and interact with the
designer directly — no previous conversation syncing required. Preview your
prototypes, complete with transitions on devices, then share your fast feedback
with the team.


Collaboratively Connected

We believe in setting up a dedicated team who can communicate daily or, as
frequently as you wish. Direct team interactions with the team via Zoom, Email,
Skype, VOIP, Hangout makes the collaboration smooth. While our project
management tools helps us achieve agile practices across the team and deliver
value to you faster than ever


Part Scientist

Our scientist side makes us agile in our development methodology with scrum
enhancement, providing an iterative development style that includes you in all
phases of the project development.


Building Meaningful Solutions

Our highest priority is to provide early and continuous delivery of valuable
software. Deliver working software modules frequently, with shorter timescale
by dividing up the work to be done into functional increments called "user
stories.“ Each successive version of the product is usable, and each builds
upon the previous version by adding user-visible functionality. As an addition,
we also deliver a working prototype in between development as a measure of
progress. We gracefully welcome changing requirements, even late in development
to harness your competitive advantage, because we understand businesses.


Teamwork With Less Work

The iterative planning and feedback loop encourages teams to continuously align
the delivered software with desired business needs. To achieve higher
productivity, we use best architectures for our self-organizing teams with
flexible engagement models:


Dedicated Team

Book an experienced dedicated team for long term projects


Time and material

The pay as you go method allowing you to get deliverables fast.


Fixed Price

The fixed price method works well if you are on a set budget and have precise
specifications of the project to complete.


Immediate Feedback Implementation

We organize tasks, communication, files all organized, centralized, and clear
so everyone knows what to do. You get a dashboard access for team-wide
communication, discussion channels to work together, and calendar of complete
project planning. You’ll feel in control when you can see everything organized
on a single screen. Additionally, our system provides you To-dos for tracking
work, a Message Board for posting announcements and updates, a Chat Room for
quick casual chats with the team, a Schedule for posting deadlines and
milestones, Docs & Files for organizing all the assets and notes, and Automatic
Check-ins to get insights from the team on a regular basis.


Real Time Updates

We aim to make updates and deliveries. fun and exciting for you. Share things
team-wide using our set of tools that lets you put everything in one place:
messages, tasks, files, schedules and more. Get back to past decisions and
easily check on multiple versions at the same time. Chat directly with the team
and get real time project status updates. We replace routine status meetings
with Automatic Check-ins.


Maintenance & Upgrades

We provide end to end software development services that span from consulting,
requirements gathering, wire-framing, UI design, development and maintenance.
NMG provides streamlined and flexible processes and methodologies that can be
customized based on your business requirements and industry specifications. Our
teams are managed by project managers and account managers. We use a huge range
of testing tools to ensure that your final product goes to launch free from
errors. All applications are produced according to strict security guidelines
and best practices.