Skip to content

Search


Create App - Detailed Guide to App UI Design for Mobile App Developers

Complete mobile application development guide to help you design and develop
the best-in-class Android and iOS apps

1. Today most of the time is spent consuming digital media on mobile apps.
2. Users spend about 90 percent of their time using applications on mobile
devices.
3. Around 85 percent of users prefer native mobile apps on mobile.
4. About 42 percent of mobile sales of Fortune 500 organizations are done
through mobile apps.

Table of Content

Chapter 3 Chapter 5


CHAPTER 4

In this chapter, you will get to know, "What is Android app development?" and
"Why is an Android app development important for business?"

We will also discuss the language used to develop Android apps and the best
software for android app development.

This chapter will also focus on a few important questions like "What are the
tools needed to develop Android apps?"


Android App Development

We are living in a world of smartphones where 87% of the smartphones are
running on Android.

Building an Android application provides you with the key to secure a
significant position in the mobile market, which is regularly growing. This
ultimately will allow your business to reach more customers thereby earn
optimum revenue

Today, organizations are moving towards mobile application development to gain
market power and client trust.

These days, Android OS controls the mobile application market, with more than
87% market share in application development.

To get ahead of the competitive edge businesses need to take advantage of
Android Application Development as it's beneficial and has guaranteed success
chances

So let's understand what Android app development is about!

What is Android app development?
Android app development is the process of creating and designing software that
can run on a mobile.

You can easily create an Android application using Java, Kotlin, and
C++programming languages with the help of Android SDK
(Software-Development-Toolkit).

Some tools and programming languages also support the development of
cross-platform applications (i.e., for both iOS and Android).

Third-party tools, development environments, and language support had also
expanded since 2008 when the original SDK was made.

Android Application Development Process
    • Conceptualization
    • Feasibility Assessment
    • Design
    • Development
    • Testing & Deployment

If you want to understand the whole process of Android development in detail,
then there is "THE NEWBIE'S GUIDE TO ANDROID DEVELOPMENT."

Android App Development Importance

In the current era, where more and more people are using smartphones.
Application development has become a primary task for every business to compete
in the market.

Android holds the largest market share by powering around 87% of smartphones.
To capture this ever-growing large market, it becomes essential to build apps
that run on Android.

Android app development is best in every sense as it allows developers to
create an interactive interface that users can explore as per their
preferences.

With the help of Android apps, you can send push notifications to attract
customers and let them know about the upcoming sales, new offers, discounts,
and different types of incentives.

You can use a fantastic image and display to grab the attention of your
customers. These are just a few examples; Android apps can do a lot more to
promote your business

Why is Android app development important for business?
In the coming years, more and more businesses will rely on Android application
development.

Android applications have the biggest market of all operating systems, and
businesses can target a broad user base on this platform and increase brand
awareness.

Here are the reasons why Android application development is essential for your
business:
   1. Market Share
   2. Low cost of development and provides a high return on investment
   3. No entry barriers
   4. You can target another platform
   5. More features of flexibility
   6. Maximum customization feature
   7. Android Studio includes versatility and scalability
   8. Easy and fast to learn

Let's understand this with the help of infographics:

If you want to know all these reasons in details, then check this article "8
Reasons to Choose Android Application Development"

Android App Development Language

Mobile applications have become a vital part of our day by day lives. We use
them to connect and obtain valuable information.

Developing a mobile app requires guidance, particularly in choosing the correct
programming language. So let's start by discussing Android app development
languages.

What is the language used to develop Android apps?
While various languages can be used for Android app development, Java is the
official language that is widely used by the global app developers.

Top 4 languages for Android Application Development

1. Java
Java has a massive community of developers that support developers when they
face any problems.

Java is a complicated language and needs expertise in complex topics like null
pointer exceptions, constructors, checked exceptions, concurrency, etc.

Overall, Java is one of the best languages to enjoy Android application
development.

But if you are not familiar with the complexities of Java, then there are more
languages on which you can build your applications.

2. Kotlin
Kotlin is a cross-platform mobile application development language that is used
as an alternative to Java.

Kotlin runs on JVM (Java Virtual Machine).

One of the significant differences you will find in Kotlin is that it removes
Java's sophisticated features such as null pointer exceptions.

Also, there is no need to include semicolons at the end of every line.

Overall, Kotlin is very simple to use in comparison with Java, especially for
beginners, and can also be utilized as an "entry point" for Android app
development.

3. C++
Developers use C++ with the Android Native Development Kit for developing
Android applications.

You can not wholly develop an Android app only with C+. Native Development Kit
helps in utilizing the libraries of C++ code for the application as per
requirement.

This is done by implementing part of the application in the native code of C++.

On the other hand, C++ is not very feeble, and also, it's challenging to set
up. Also, it's complexity can result in more bugs.

4. C#
C# is very much the same as Java, and that's the reason it is used to develop
Android applications.

Similar to Java, C # to implements garbage collection to lower the chances of
memory leaks.

Coding in C# is much cleaner with simple syntax in comparison with Java, and
this is the reason C# is easy for coding.

There are various types of applications like Music player, Chat Messenger,
Game, etc. that can be built using the above mentioned four languages.

There are few more languages like Python, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and Corona
that can also be used as ideal platforms to develop Android app development.

Which is the best software for android app development?

Xamarin
Xamarin is a cross-platform framework owned by Microsoft and often referred to
as an intelligent framework for mobile app development.

This framework is combined with various features that are useful for creating
quality Android, Windows, and iOS apps.

Android Studio
Android Studio is the official IDE (Integrated Development Environment) for
developing Android applications.

Android Studio features include APK analyzer, flexible build system, visual
layout editor, intelligent code editor, firebase for implementation, real-time
profilers, TODO functionality, Device File Explorer or Device Manager, Version
Controller, Resource Manager and many more.

It also supports Android X, which is the latest platform for Android
development.

PhoneGap
PhoneGap is a product for app development owned by Adobe. PhoneGap is known as
one of the fastest app development platforms.

PhoneGap also allows developers to reuse code, once written, to create hybrid
applications.

With the PhoneGap, developers can utilize the power of the Cordova plugin while
using different frameworks for the development of Android applications.

The best part is that the Cordova plugin enables the framework to interface
with native APIs, for example, accelerometers, GPS, cameras, messages, and
calls that result in native application experience.

Know more about Apache Cordova.

Corona
Corona is a hybrid framework built to facilitate developers with a robust
application development environment.

You can use this app development framework to create beautiful and more fast
applications for enterprise, game, and education.

There are many more tools that you can use for the development of Android
applications like Unreal Engine, CppDroid, AIDE, IntelliJ IDE, Unity 3D,
Basic4android. Among all these tools, we have explained the best one.

To understand all these in detail, you can check "Best Android Ide / Tools For
App Development."

What are the tools needed to develop Android apps?

Many Android app development tools have been helping developers in their
journey of app development. Android has open-source nature based on which a
variety of tools have emerged in the market to help build applications.

Some of the tools use web technologies, and some of them are cross-platform.

You can build Android apps using IDEs (integrated development environments) or
other alternative tools like:

Adobe Flash (AIR/Flash)
Adobe AIR and Adobe Flash Player are Adobe Flash's ubiquitous runtimes that
enable the developers to continuously deliver expressive applications, content,
and videos to the broadest possible audience across devices, browsers, and
desktop.


Xamarin 2.0 (C#)
Xamarin will create native Android applications with the use of modern language
(C #), Visual Studio and .NET base class library. Xamarin is a cross-platform
development tool.


Learn more about Xamarin.

Ruboto (Ruby)
Ruboto is a toolchain and framework for developing native Android apps, with
the help of the Ruby language.



Appcelerator Titanium (Javascript/HTML)
Appcelerator is a tool and framework for creating great, native mobile apps-all
from a single JavaScript codebase.


Basic4android (Basic)
B4A or Basic4android is a simple, powerful, and modern mobile application
development tool. With B4X, anyone who wants to create a mobile application can
develop real-world solutions.


There are many more tools like Scripting Layer For Android (Perl, Python,
etc.), IntelliJ IDEA (Alternative IDE, Java)AppInventor (Drag and Drop), and
more.

Learn about some of the best tools for Android application development on Best
Android Ide / Tools For App Development.

What is an Android app developer?

A software developer who develops applications for the Android market is known
as Android Developer.

There are different types of tasks that an Android developer performs when he
develops an Android app.

Here is the list of responsibilities and duties that an Android developer
performs:
    • Develop and design high performing Android applications.
    • Working with cross-functional teams to design, define, and implement new
      features.
    • Troubleshoot the bugs in existing and new applications.
    • Continuously evaluate and implement the latest and trending development
      tools.
    • Works with external data and APIs.

Move on to have an idea of the skills of Android developers

Skills of Android Developers
    • Expertise in C/C ++
    • Expertise in JavaScript
    • Expertise in MYSQL database
    • Give attention to details
    • Diagnostic skills
    • Analytical aptitude
    • Ability to thrive in a supportive domain
    • Capable of handling Android Studio
    • Complex critical thinking aptitudes

After discussing what an Android developer is and what are his/her
responsibilities and skills, it's the time when you need to know the hacks of
hiring an Android developer.

How to hire an Android app developer?

For creating market-driven Android applications, we have to employ top Android
application developers. But the question is, "How to hire an Android
developer?"

So, to make this task easy, here are some tips for locating the correct group
of Android application designers for your business:
   1. Search for a talented group of Android application engineers.
   2. Don't primarily focus on cost while hiring a developer.
   3. Look for the previous client projects of the developers.
   4. Check for his/her information on the open-source stage.
   5. Associate with past clients.
   6. Do they have an imaginative or innovative methodology?
   7. Go to a certified and reputed organization.
   8. Privacy Agreements and NDA are required.
   9. Inquire about the team of engineers.
  10. Look for post-development support and tasks.

When you are planning to hire Android developers, it is critical to check
whether they are genuine developers who can deliver your application with whom
you can work and provide the highest possible level of production.

Employing the correct developers for Android development can save you a lot of
cash and time, and you may also find them appropriate for future projects.

The hiring procedure can be challenging, but if you maintain a strategic
distance from the pitfalls mentioned here, you will get the right one.

Let’s now discuss how much Android development costs?

How much does android app development cost?

Android development journey starts by planning revenue generation of business.

A definitive objective of any business is to increase the flow of cash, and app
development is an essential part of accomplishing this objective.

The Android application improvement cost relies upon which plan of action you
are deciding to boost ROI.

Free Application
Applications are free to download for users, and they can use the essential
functions of apps. But if they want to use premium features of the application,
they will have to buy the premium plan.

Paid Application
To download paid applications, users have to pay a certain amount. There are
various types of paid apps like one time purchase, monthly billing, and yearly
billing.

In-App Advertising
You can run advertisements or promotions on your Android apps. You can also
monetize your app by allowing other businesses to run their ads on your
application.

In-App Purchase
It is the best plan of action to generate income in the long run. Using these
tactics, organizations can sell their services and products on their
applications.

Estimated Android App Development Cost

Simple Android App
    • Development Time: A simple Android app takes 2-3 months to develop.
    • Business Analysis: It can cost between $1000-$2500.
    • UI/UX Design: UI/UX designing costs between $1500-$3000.
    • Custom Application Development: This can cost between $7000-$15000.
    • Project management: Project Management cost between $1500-$3500.
    • Quality Assurance: $1500-3000 is the estimated cost for Quality
      Assurance.
    • Total Setup: Total Setup cost for a simple Android app development can
      cost between $12500-$27000.
Complex Android App
    • Development Time: A complex Android app can take 5-9 months to develop.
    • Business Analysis: Business analysis can cost between $3000-$7000.
    • UI/UX Design: UI/UX designing costs for a complex app development can
      cost between $4000-$6000.
    • Custom Application Development: For complex Android development, this can
      cost between $17000-$22000.
    • Project management: Project Management for complex apps can cost between
      $4000-$6000.
    • Quality Assurance: $4000-$6000 is the estimated cost for Quality
      Assurance.
    • Total Setup: Total Setup cost for a complex Android app development can
      cost between $32000-$48000.
Large Android App
    • Development Time: A great Android app may take more than ten months to
      complete the development.
    • Business Analysis: Business analysis can cost more than $5000.
    • UI/UX Design: UI/UX designing costs for a massive app development can
      cost more than $7000.
    • Custom Application Development: For extensive android development, this
      can cost more $25000.
    • Project management: Project Management for a large app can cost more than
      $7000.
    • Quality Assurance: The estimated cost for Quality Assurance can go more
      than $8000.
    • Total Setup: Total Setup cost for an extensive Android app development
      can cost more than $52000.