Outsourcing


10 Effortless Ways to Find the Best Outsourcing Team

OUTSOURCING is the best way to find a team or a partner who can work with you
and help you build your product. Visit & Know More!

Nishtha
Jan 28, 2016
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 10 minutes

Okay, so you have an idea, business plan and the industry experience. The next
challenge – Look out for resourceful, talented team to build your idea into an
online business within your startup budgets.

Okay, so you have an idea, business plan and the industry experience.

The next challenge – Look out for resourceful, talented team to build your idea
into an online business within your startup budgets.

OUTSOURCING is the best way to find a team or a partner who can work with you
and help you build your product.

Learn More about  Outsourcing Benefits and Challenges Here

Startups and Small Medium Businesses are increasingly outsourcing Web and
Mobile Development work to offshore companies where the skill set are great and
doesn’t push the budget off limits.

Outsourcing might seem as your best bet for your business concerns; however,
finding the right company to achieve the desired results isn’t a walk in the
clouds!

The problem with finding the right offshore company to outsource IT or software
projects is unfortunately quite common.

The most pertinent question here is:


How to find a company that is capable enough to deliver among the crowd?

Many of us have heard some shocking stories about outsourcing.

How someone spent thousands of dollars during a course of 6 months and did not
get any satisfactory results.

The most common methodology used by a majority of people is Google search.

They open Google, enter a couple of keywords of required expertise and go
through a list of companies analyzing and choosing the one which seems most
appropriate.

Money often becomes a decision maker and unfortunately this leads to some wrong
choices and substantial number of failed projects.

There could be few reasons for failure over here. Let’s take a look:

   1. Late Deliveries: You think the outsourced team is working dedicatedly on
      your project.However, it turns out that the team is working on several
      projects for many clients and consequently does not devote sufficient
      time to your project which results in missed deadlines.
   2. No Project Management: The outsourced company allocates staff for your
      project but lacks a Project Manager. This makes it hard for you to manage
      the project yourself, especially if time zones are different.
   3. Lack of Understanding the Requirements: Team starts working on your
      project without understanding the complete project specs and the result
      is completely different from what you needed.
   4. Inflexible Engagement Models: Your requirements as a business keep
      changing; however, the outsourced team does not have any means to track
      their tasks or effectively manage, hence, this too results in a disaster.
   5. Human Resources: The outsourced company has a high attrition rate, so the
      team working for your project changes frequently which affects your
      deadlines.
   6. Lack of Confidentiality: The outsourced company violates NDA and steals
      your trade secret.
   7. Miscommunication: The outsourced team is good but there is a language
      barrier between you and the point of contact. This results in
      miscommunication.


Here is a Step by Step Guide to help You Find a Perfect Outsourcing Company


How to Shortlist Outsourcing Companies

After listing potential outsourcing partners, the next step is to shortlist the
genuine ones. Accomplish this by meticulously reviewing their websites and
online presence:

Cooperation Models Available
Choosing the right cooperation model is a pivotal step in shortlisting
outsourcing companies. The Project-Based Model, suitable for projects with a
specific result, the Dedicated Team Model, used for projects where long-term
collaboration is needed, and Staff Augmentation, used for projects with
fluctuating workloads, offer you the power to tailor your outsourcing
partnership to your specific needs.

Software and Industry Expertise
Examine the software and the potential partners' industry specialty before you
decide. Instead of doing business with companies that are not very experienced
in your industry and quite familiar with the technologies that you use, opt for
companies that have a good history in your industry and are knowledgeable of
the technologies that you use. Thus, they can smoothly fit into your daily
routine and bring your business goals to reality.

Client Satisfaction
Customer satisfaction is a good sign of an outsourcing company's
trustworthiness and reliability and the level of quality of service. To get the
best deal, look for testimonials, case studies, and client references. High
client satisfaction is related to successful project outcomes and good
professional relationships.

Culture
Cultural alignment is not just a factor, but a cornerstone of the success of
your outsourcing partnership. The potential for conflicts in work culture can
be mitigated when there are shared values, communication styles, and business
ethics. Ensuring the company you choose aligns with these factors can reassure
you of a cooperative and efficient relationship.

Through these steps, businesses can find a company that matches their strategic
objectives and find a partner who works well with them and helps them succeed.


Get One-on-One Consultations

One-on-one consultations are the premier step in choosing the perfect
outsourcing team. These discussions enable you to understand potential
partners' particular aspects and evaluate whether they fit your business
requirements.

Business Model
When conducting the consultations, discuss the outsourcing company's business
model. Learn about its attitude toward project management, communication, and
task performance. The model you select should match your operational needs and
business objectives.

Developer Expertise
One can assess the technical knowledge of their programmers by evaluating their
ability to perform the tasks, their experience levels, and the extent to which
they are familiar with the technologies they need for the project. This will
give you the assurance that they have the ability to deal with your project's
difficulties.

Budgeting
The budget is the main aspect to consider when deciding on outsourcing.
Elaborated sentence: Talk about the cost structure, the payment terms, and any
other extra expenses that may be incurred. A clear budgeting process is a way
to prevent financial shocks, and thus, the project is always within the budget.

Recruitment
Ask about the company's recruitment procedures. Learning how they choose and
evaluate their talent will be a reason for being confident in the quality and
reliability of the team you'll be working with.

Timeframe
In the consultations, provide information about the project duration and the
expected time to complete it. Make sure the outsourcing company is capable of
delivering the project on time while still maintaining quality. Realistic and
achievable time frames are the key to the right project execution.

Compliance
The agreement with the rules and regulations set by the industry is inevitable.
Get to know the outsourcing company to check if it follows the laws and
regulations, thus making sure that your project is in compliance and safe.

Cultural Fit
Lastly, during your consultations, examine whether you and the candidate are a
perfect match. Discuss work hours with your colleagues, the preferred way of
communication, and how to solve conflicts. Fitting culture leads to
collaborative and productive teamwork.

In order to avoid the above-listed mistakes or at least to reduce the
associated risks, there needs to be a way which can help you find that reliable
outsourcing team.

Get Access to a Complete Outsourcing Guide Download our Ebook Here

Step# 1 Understand the Outsourcing Engagement Model which your Business needs

 We provide Flexible Engagement Models - Learn More about them Here

Apart from the various engagement models, there are a slew of methodologies
which can be adopted, based on a particular business’s requirements.

Agile methodology is an effective alternative to traditional project management
methods which are typically used in software development. It helps work teams
to effectively coordinate and respond to unpredictability with the help of
incremental, iterative work cadences which are called sprints.

To put it in simple words, Agile methodology basically refers to a unique way
of managing IT projects and development teams.

Here software is developed in small and measurable releases making it a steady
cycle. Here each of the releases is built on the success of the previous
functionality which is thoroughly tested to maintain quality.

The Agile methodology can be used when there is a need for implementing new
changes.

The amount of freedom that you can get with Agile is relevant to the project.
Herein the new changes can be easily implemented at a low cost owing to the
frequency of the new increments that are being churned out every moment.

Scrum Methodology is a part of the Agile framework which was developed to help
in completion of complex projects.

It aims to cure the common shortcomings of a typical project development
lifecycle which can be caused due to a number of reasons such as, changing
requirements, unrealistic demands of cost, time and quality of the product.

Projects broken down into tasks and built with one small piece at a time
fosters creativity, and enables teams to respond to feedback and change.

Developed originally for formalizing software development projects, Scrum can
work well for any kind of complex work.

Scrum can be easily used to enhance teamwork, communications as well as speed.

Scrum is the leading agile development methodology, used by Fortune 500
companies around the world.

 Learn More about our  Development Methodologies Here

Step # 2 Sources from where you Find your Outsourcing Company

There could be a number of sources from where you can scout for your next
outsourcing team. Below are some of the common sources which are usually the
chosen means to look up for a new outsourcing team.

Google Search

Looking up a search engine is by far the primary step through which one can
look for options for outsourcing. On the basis of the required skillset or
technological expertise make a list of keywords which would give you the best
and most relevant results and start your quest.

Once you get the search results, take time in shortlisting and select the most
relevant results based on online reviews of those particular companies and
their industry reputation.

Now that you have a list with you, go ahead and sieve through the most useful
ones and take it forward from here.

Marketplaces

Online marketplaces can be your best bet when you are looking for offshore
outsourcing partners.

There are various online marketplaces for IT services that are readily
available to businesses and which make offshore IT outsourcing more accessible
as well as manageable.

These online marketplaces expose companies to hundreds of vendors across the
world and have emerged in response to provide the most relevant match making
and give the most optimal results for basic project management requirements.

Referrals through Friends and Colleagues

Have some of your friends and industry colleagues or business partners refer
some company to you. This can be one of the most reliable ways.

However, you need to screen the team’s credentials carefully as what worked for
your business partner might not work for you.

The company might not necessarily have enough expertise in your project or does
not match the selection criteria. Keep them in the list but do not choose, just
yet.

Directory Listings

Directory listings are another popular way to look up the most optimal choices
in freelancers across the web. Below are some of the popular sources through
which one can look out potential outsourcing teams.

    • Clutch: Clutch can actually help you in researching and reviewing your
      choice of outsourcing partner in offshore locations. Clutch gives you a
      basic idea about firms offering varied services by having information
      about their services and their reviews.Here companies are mapped based on
      their performances and people contribute their experiences as well by
      submitting reviews.
    • Reddit: A social news site wherein people can post links to useful
      content on the web. Here people can give out their votes to what the rest
      of the world is talking about.
    • Craigslist: This is a great place for posting ads based on your business
      environment. Craigslist is basically a classified advertisements website
      that has separate sections for jobs, housing, etc. Businesses can post
      their requirements here and wait for the most appropriate responses.
    • Smashing Magazine: A wonderfully informative website and eBook publisher,
      Smashing Magazine can help you scout for the right person for your
      business needs through its jobs section.

One can check for the type of job which can be freelance or full time.

Step # 3 Understand the Skills and Capabilities of the Company

Choosing the right offshore team for your project is a critical step to
successful outsourcing. Your outsourcing partner should be capable to bring the
best and the brightest on the table.

Since outsourcing is a demanding process and involves high business stakes, it
is only relevant to have only the best of the best working with you at all
times.

In fact, there should be specific skills that your outsourcing team should
possess in order to give their best performance.

Below are some of the most important points that you need to consider before
you go ahead with your chosen outsourcing team:

    • Industry Experience: It is important that your check your outsourcing
      team with their experience in the similar industry as your requirement.
      The team should be familiar with the type of task you are assigning and
      must have a successful experience to back up their skill set.
    • Working Model: It is imperative to note that you ascertain their working
      model well in advance before going ahead with the deal. Whether they work
      on hourly basis and what are their rates. These things need to be
      considered before you sign on the dotted line.
    • Development Process: It is also important to note what all software has
      the outsourced team worked on in the past. What is their development
      process and way of working?
    • Communication and Collaboration: You need to ensure that the
      communication and collaboration process of the outsourced team is at par
      with your company works on. Collaboration, communication tools and
      project management tools are necessary for you as a business to keep in
      touch and know the progress of the project in real time.

      Assessing communication skills is a must. This is especially critical for
      offshore clients since the mode of communication would be
      Skype/Hangouts/VoIP apart from the telephone. If there is a communication
      gap, your project can go haywire.

    • Security and Confidentiality: As a client, you need to make sure that
      your project and business details are secure in the hands of your
      outsourcing partner. Before you start working with a team, it is most
      important that you check their contract policies and pay attention to
      conflict resolution terms that they follow. You should be interested if
      their contract agreements specifically mention the courts for conflict
      resolution. It must also have NDA (non-disclosure agreement).
    • Timely Delivery: It is critical to ensure that your project will be
      completed on time with the desired quality. Deadlines are critical in
      business and working with a team that does not honor deadlines will throw
      your project off the hill.

Step # 4 Consultation and Requirements Analysis

Requirements analysis or consultation is the most important phase of any
project management; irrespective of whether it is outsourced or not.

A requirements analysis gives you a clear picture of what the project
deliverables are and what would be the defined scope of work according to which
the tasks will be taken up.

If the requirement analysis is not done properly, it can result into project
deliverables not meeting the business requirements which in turn would result
in waste of time and money.

This early phase of consulting involves understanding the specifications of the
project, gathering information and documenting all the business requirements.

This process enables a better understanding of the business idea, industry and
subject brainstorming ideas and consulting the client to build a right proof of
concept, solution and making a detailed proposal based on which the right
expectations are set.

 Learn More about our  Requirements Analysis

It doesn’t matter whether your organization makes use of an outsourced or
in-house team approach; there are pretty much chances that you are already
connected in a globally distributed IT development circle.

Conventional management tools and practices are sometimes insufficient in order
to address the challenges of businesses who are readily embracing IT
outsourcing in order to stay ahead of competition.

As a business, you need to take a strategic approach to IT outsourcing and
choose the resources wisely. A less expensive solution might not be the one
that gives you the most competitive advantage that you seek.

Investing in a relationship with a reputable IT service provider that takes the
time to assess your needs and offers a wide range of services is a
cost-effective way.

Keeping in mind the above-discussed pointers and staying clear of the common
mistakes can help you locate and find the best outsourcing team for your
project which can also mark the beginning of a mutually successful business
relationship.


Frequently Asked Questions


1. What is an outsourcing company?

Outsourcing is termed as a business practice where a company hires another
organization to handle specified business activities on your behalf. This
process is reliable for domestic as well as international businesses that are
seeking third-party assistance to achieve their business goals.


2. Where can I find outsourcing companies?

There are so many sources such as Google Search, Marketplaces, Referrals
through friends and colleagues, Directory listing on platforms like Clutch,
Reddit and Smashing Magazine where you can easily find the best outsourcing
companies.


3. Why would a company outsource?

Cost reduction is the first and the most important reason why most of the
companies outsource services from other organizations. Today, service
outsourcing is also admired as it gives business owners the time and space to
focus on major operations to increase business reach.


4. What is the difference between outsourcing and subcontracting?

Outsourcing is handing over your business operations or specific job to some
other party whereas subcontracting is directly related to hiring someone to get
your task accomplished.


5. What are the advantages of outsourcing?

Apart from reducing overhead costs, outsourcing helps companies to reach their
targets with skilled expertise, flexible staffing facilities, increased
efficiency, reduced turnaround time that ultimately results in optimum profit.


6. What countries outsource the most?

India tops the list when it comes to counting the country that is involved in
service outsourcing the most. China, Malaysia, Brazil, Indonesia, Thailand, and
Japan are also in-lined and broadly known for quality service outsourcing
countries.


7. Why do big companies outsource?

Outsourcing basically a professional strategy to hire someone or an
industry-leading company on contract to get highly skilled and quality-assured
results for their services. In short, the hired resource or organization become
valuable partners for the business if they deliver great results at a low cost
and in the shortest possible time.


8. What is software development outsourcing?

Software development outsourcing is the process of choosing a leading
third-party software development company that is involved in taking care of
each development step including testing and quality assurance. The practice
also involves checking whether the selected company knows all the standard
rules and also stick to the latest software development trends.


9. How can outsourcing help your company?

Primarily, outsourcing cut-short the cost and always keeps the business in
profit. Besides, if you outsource services from a top-notch company, you can
set yourself free from the efficiency and quality of the assigned project.


10. How much does it cost to outsource software development?

The cost probably varies depending on the type and size of the project. To
estimate a bit, you can pick an example of a software development company that
cost you around $25 - $45 per hour. And, if you hire another low budget
company, the cost will automatically be decreased to some extent.

Request Free Pricing
Outsourcing


Similar posts

Outsourcing


Top Ways to Find The Right Outsourcing Company

To find the right outsourcing company, narrow down your needs to ease the
comparison process in this extremely noisy marketplace.

Nishtha Aug 30, 2019
Growth


The Hourly Model of Hiring Resources: All That You Need to Know

Avail true value for money by hiring developers on an hourly basis. Find
answers to all your questions related to the hourly model here.

Nishtha Oct 23, 2015
Design


Vital Principles for Quality Web Design

If you're working on a design for your website, make sure you follow or
consider these vital principles of web design to secure the first impressions.

Nishtha Nov 30, 2012


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.