Skip to content

Search


End-To-End Magento
Development

Comprehensive Magento development solutions for Online
Storefronts that drive Conversions.

    • SERVICES
    • Ecommerce Development
    • Magento Development
Services


Get Top-Tier Magento Development Solutions for Your Business.

At NMG Technologies, we specialize in Magento (Adobe Commerce) development and
create robust back-end systems with intuitive UI/UX & integrated AI-powered
personalization to build online stores, primed for a greater return on
investment. With an expert team of certified in-house developers, NMG
Technologies has assisted the launch of more than 429+ successful Magento
eCommerce stores and applications for small, medium and big enterprises. Our
Magento stores offer faster performance, unmatched UI/UX and higher search
rankings. Partner with our experts to develop high-converting eCommerce
customer journeys in Magento that drive scalable growth.


Our Magento Development Services.

NMG Technologies provides top-tier Magento development services and builds
custom online stores, aligned with the business objectives.

Magento Consulting
NMG Technologies offers full-service strategy and technology consulting,
focusing on custom solutions as per the specific business goals. We also offer
Magento site deployment services which offer an enhanced online retail
experience.
Magento 2 Development
Our experts develop custom Magento 2 extensions & modules that meet your
specific requirements, ensuring seamless integrations & improved performance.
We provide Magento 2 solutions for high-volume businesses with advanced
features, premium support & enterprise-grade hosting.
Magento Migration
NMG provides the expertise to migrate your current store or website to a
feature-rich Magento solution with intuitive UX/UI & functionalities best
suited for scalability. In Magento migrations, we ensure minimal downtime &
maximum compatibility with existing infrastructure & customizations.
Magento Web Development
Our certified developers provide custom Magento development services for your
unique business use cases. We build tailored Magento solutions that deliver a
superior shopping experience with user-friendly site design & meet your
business needs using Magento features.
Magento eCommerce Development
Our Magento development agency specializes in building enterprise-grade robust
& scalable solutions, meticulously tailored to your unique business
requirements that drive sustainable growth. We utilise Magento eCommerce
features to build impactful customer journeys that drive sales.
Magento App Development
Our Magento development company creates scalable, responsive and feature-rich
mobile storefronts that integrate seamlessly with your existing platform. By
availing of our Magento app development services, you can have custom mobile
apps that integrate seamlessly with your Magento store and offer a seamless
shopping experience on the go.
Magento Marketplace Development
Our Magento web development company develops successful Magento marketplace
solutions that connect buyers and sellers efficiently and feature advanced
search, sorting and filtering options. Develop an exquisite online marketplace
with top-notch Magento development from NMG Technologies.
Magento Theme Development
Our Magento theme design experts create stunning, responsive themes that
reflect your brand identity with perfection. We provide custom-designed and
SEO-friendly Magento themes that enhance your online store’s visual appeal and
UX to deliver better engagement & conversions.
Magento Integration
We provide seamless integration services between your Magento store and
third-party systems such as inventory, payment gateways, shipping providers and
social media platforms and other systems to ensure a streamlined user
experience.
Magento Support & Maintainance
Our experts provide you with support and maintenance services and keep you
upgraded with the latest features, tools and plugins offered by Magento. From
technical upkeep to data analysis, our Magento development agency ensures your
online store runs smoothly, securely, and effectively with proactive monitoring
and quick issue resolution.
Magento Consulting
NMG Technologies offers full-service strategy and technology consulting,
focusing on custom solutions as per the specific business goals. We also offer
Magento site deployment services which offer an enhanced online retail
experience.
Why Magento


Why Choose Magento for eCommerce Development?

The top companies choose Magento eCommerce development services for the
platform’s extensive features and modules such as payment gateways, shipping
integrations, inventory management & more. The Magento platform is highly
scalable and flexible with a high capacity of handling high traffic and large
product catalogs. It offers a high degree of customization and theming,
allowing developers to create engaging shopping experiences. Plus, Magento’s
modular architecture allows for easy updates and integrations.

NMG specializes in custom, user-centric Magento development services and
creates stunning online storefronts with all the latest Magento features such
as seamless integration, robust scalability and lightning-fast performance for
enhanced user experience and increased conversions. Trust NMG Technologies with
Magento development projects and stay ahead of the curve. Get in touch with us
now.


Magento Development for Diverse Industries.

    • Healthcare & Medical
    • Fintech
    • Edtech
    • Travel and Hospitality
    • Real Estate
    • Logistics and Automotive
NMG Technologies provides custom Magento development services to local as well
as global healthcare businesses.
We build platform-based solutions such as online pharmacies, telemedicine
platforms, patient portals, medical equipment
supplier apps and so on.

Our Magento website development company builds secure and scalable web and
mobile platforms for multi-party, complex financial transactions.

The Fintech solutions we develop accelerate digital innovation by eliminating
intermediaries and reducing costs.

Partner with NMG Technologies and get interactive yet robust edtech solutions.

We deliver systems that cater to the unique needs of your educational
organization with seamless navigation, personalized dashboards and integration
of the Magento platform with Learning Management Systems (LMS).

NMG Technologies offers custom Magento software development services equipped
with database management, payment system integration, interactive scheduling,
responsive design and much more.

This enables our clients in the travel & hospitality industry to deliver the
best online experience to their target audiences.
Our Magento solutions empower real estate clients with digital capabilities by
facilitating property searches & transactions.
Our Magento development services for real estate include building user-friendly
property listing portals and custom CRMs laced with immersive web designs &
effective UI/UX.
Our team of capable programmers builds custom software such as warehouse
management systems (WMS), Transport Management Systems and Freight Brokerage
Platforms.
Our intuitive UX and mobile-responsive Magento solutions help logistics and
automotive companies streamline operations easily.
TECH


Our Core Technologies For Magento Development.

NMG Technologies employs the latest technologies for Magento development &
creates highly scalable and secure online store solutions.

    • Custom
    • Frontend
    • Back-End
    • Databases
    • Php
      As the primary programming language for Magento development, we leverage
      PHP 7. x and 8. x versions to create custom modules, develop Magento
      extensions, and ensure seamless interactions
    • Microsoft .Net
      Employing enterprise features and intuitive architecture, Microsft .Net
      helps us create robust e-commerce storefronts that make modern, secure &
      compliant solutions.
    • JQuery
      Using jQuery with HTML, we create dynamic, visually appealing web pages
      that deliver amazing user experience.
    • HTML
      Going beyond themes and templates, HTML allows us complete control to
      customize structure and content.
    • CSS
      We develop the style & aesthetics of online stores using CSS to establish
      a strong visual presence.
    • Bootstrap
      We give eCommerce websites a solid foundation using this versatile
      framework that allows for flexibility and customization.
    • Backbone.JS
      This lightweight framework is used to create small to medium-sized
      applications.
    • Angular.JS
      AngularJS offers two-way data binding, an ideal testing atmosphere and an
      extensive library for e-commerce developers.
    • Skeleton
      We utilize Skeleton to maintain the continuity of the interface to
      improve UX and reduce load times.
    • Python
      Known for its versatility and extensive libraries like Django and Flask,
      it is suitable for complex e-commerce applications.
    • Java
      We often use this robust and scalable language with frameworks like
      Spring and Hibernate to develop large-scale e-commerce platforms.
    • PHP
      Widely preferred for e-commerce app development due to its ease of use
      and frameworks like Laravel and Symfony.
    • Node.js
      This JavaScript runtime environment enables fast and efficient
      server-side development with frameworks like Express.js.
    • Ruby on Rails
      A high-level framework emphasizing convention over configuration is quite
      popular for its rapid development capabilities.
    • MySQL
      A widely used open-source relational database system.
    • PostgreSQL
      A powerful and feature-rich open-source relational database.
    • MongoDB
      A popular document-oriented database, offering flexibility and
      scalability for handling unstructured data.
    • Cassandra
      A highly scalable and distributed NoSQL database, designed for handling
      large-volume data.


Hire Our Top-Class Magento Developers.

Our team of Microsoft-certified Magento developers specializes in

    • Crafting User-Centric Online Storefronts
      with compelling interfaces that offer engaging shopping experiences,
      perfectly aligned with your business needs
    • Building Powerful Enterprise Magento
      eCommerce solutions with superior reliability and advanced tools.
    • Delivering High-Performance
      scalable and secure Magento solutions in cutting-edge technology.
    • Exceptional Client Handling
      to address all your Magento platform concerns, ensuring a smooth and
      successful project deployment.

Get in touch with us to transform your eCommerce business and ready yourself to
have an impactful Magento eCommerce presence. Contact us today!

Our Development Process


Our Magento Development Process.

We guide you from concept to launch of your successful Magento online store.
Our iterative Magento development process focuses on collaboration and
flexibility.

    • 01
      Discovery & Planning
      We gather the essential information about the project from your end and
      gain an in-depth understanding of your business goals, target audience
      and competitive landscape to define how to best utilize our Magento
      development capabilities for you.
    • 02
      Defining Scope of Work
      Our experienced team outlines the scope, features, functionalities, and
      technical specifications to create Project Management & Monitoring plans
      with timelines, milestones & budgets and establish communication channels
      and management systems.
    • 03
      Planning and Analysis
      We analyze your current Magento (Adobe Commerce) setup, pinpoint
      improvements, select essential system integrations, design database
      schema, determine the technology stack and create a project schedule with
      tasks, deadlines, and resource allocation.
    • 04
      Design & Prototyping
      In this stage, a detailed design concept is created based on project
      requirements. UI/UX design in the Magento theme is created, wireframing
      is done and a prototype & functional specifications are developed.
    • 05
      Feedback Integration
      We conduct UI/UX testing and consult you regarding the design and UI
      elements of the online store. As per best industry practices, our
      designers implement received feedback.
    • 06
      Magento Development
      In the development phase, we create the Magento theme, layouts, and user
      interface based on the design concept. We also implement necessary
      modules and extensions, conduct testing and ensure clean, documented
      code. The front-end and back-end infrastructure are built in this step.
    • 07
      Testing & Quality Assuarance
      We conduct testing of the Magento site across devices and browsers to
      ensure seamless functioning. This includes testing for functionality,
      performance, security and compatibility. Any bugs or issues discovered
      are fixed.
    • 08
      Deployment & Launch
      We launch the Magento site and ensure its smooth operation. This includes
      setting up the production environment, deploying the site, conducting
      final testing and making the site live for public access.
    • 09
      Maintenance & Support
      After launching the Magento site, we monitor its performance, security
      and functionality, making backups and maintaining data integrity. We
      provide ongoing post-launch support, updates and maintenance to ensure
      the site’s optimal performance.
client speak


Your Journey, Our Expertise:
Results-Driven Successful Partnerships

"NMG is my sigh of relief. Finding an SEO agency, you can trust to create
data-driven, Advanced SEO and Content Marketing strategies while staying
focused on your unique business and achieving the desired results is rare. The
personal attention they give to our projects and their ownership over the
results help us fulfill our mission to enable every person on Earth to travel
freely."
Mohak Nahta
CEO and Founder, Atlys Inc
“If you are looking for a company that truly cares about your business and your
success, look no further than NMG. Their team is knowledgeable, trustworthy,
and committed to delivering results that exceed expectations.”
Mihir Trivedi
Head of Marketing
“NMG Technologies provided a detailed specification document and appropriate
software solutions from the outset, delivering results very close to the
original proposal. The team was available to discuss issues, replied promptly
to emails, and provided constant updates.”

Sai Karan Vedulla
London & Partners,
VP & Chief Representative

"What set NMG apart from other companies was their experience in managing
complex programs and their strategic insights in the B2B segment. They did an
excellent job throughout the whole project and provided a level of assurance
and comfort in their abilities that others could not match"

Steve Delvecchia
VP Digital Engagement,
Resources Connection Inc.
(NASDAQ Listed)

Our Awards


Recognitions & Awards.

Our Process


Our Blogs.

We guide you from concept to launch of your successful Magento online store.
Our iterative Magento development process focuses on collaboration and
flexibility.


Never Miss a Goal with Koora Break!

Developed by NMG Technologies, Experience Football Like Never Before with Saudi
Arabia's Award-Winning Soccer App.

February 23, 2024

Read More


NMG Technologies to Participate in Mobile Word Capital Barcelona – the world’s
largest and most influential connectivity event

NMG Technologies to Participate in Mobile Word Capital Barcelona – the world’s
largest and most influential connectivity event

February 16, 2024

Read More


NMG Technologies Participated in Softwave 2023, The Republic of Korea Software
Exhibition

NMG Technologies Participated in Softwave 2023, The Republic of Korea Software
Exhibition

November 29, 2023

Read More
Support


FAQ’s.


What is Magento in programming?

Magento is a PHP-based, open-source e-commerce platform that helps merchants
build and manage online stores with ease.


What language is Magento written in?

Magento is written in PHP. Its frontend layer consists of HTML, CSS, and
JavaScript and its database layer uses MySQL or PostgreSQL.


What are the benefits of Magento custom extension development?

The benefits of Magento custom extension development include increased
flexibility, scalability and customization. This allows businesses to tailor
online storefronts to their specific needs and offer a better UX.


What is Magento 2 custom module development?

Magento 2 custom module development is the process of creating custom
extensions and modules for the Magento 2 e-commerce platform. This allows
developers to extend the platform’s functionalities, fix bugs, and improve
performance.


How long does it take to develop an e-store using Magento?

The time it takes to develop an e-store using Magento depends on the project’s
complexity, the scope of work and the e-store’s size. On average, it can take
several weeks to several months.


What would be the average cost of developing a Magento ecommerce store?

The average cost of developing a Magento ecommerce store, factoring in hosting,
domain registration and an SSL certificate can range from $10,000 to $50,000.
The cost can be higher depending on the complexity of the project.


Is Magento a good ecommerce platform?

Yes, Magento is a widely-used ecommerce platform, offering an array of
features, flexibility and scalability that makes it suitable for businesses of
all sizes.