Design


5 Mistakes you can avoid while collecting Design Feedback

There’s always a feedback stage in the web design process with clients. Here
are the 5 mistakes to avoid when collecting & giving feedback on design drafts.

Nishtha
Aug 25, 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 0 minutes

Collecting web design feedback from clients can often turn out to be a tricky
task. Everyone and anyone can have an opinion on design, but the most relevant
feedback will only give you the best results.

It is easy enough to comment; however, giving out clear and constructive
feedback is what matters in the end.

The most common mistake while inviting feedback is sharing the design too late
in the project stage. All stakeholders must be asked to give their feedback in
the early stages of the project.

In every web design process, there is a feedback stage which requires
exhaustive interaction not only between co-workers but also with external
clients. It is also important to avoid web design feedback mistakes.

This kind of interaction will obviously lead to improvement suggestions from
both the sides.

Involving client in the early stages of design feedback will require you to
guide them into giving valuable and usable feedback.

The best way to explain the same will require you to convince them that in
order for the project to be a success, their feedback is immensely important.

Refining your feedback process will help you in gathering more constructive and
useful commentary. At the end, you will be able to create a design that is
clear, compelling as well as relevant to what was asked.

Learn More About Web Design & Development

Here are some of the common errors people make in asking the client for
feedback.

1. Not setting a Feedback cycle: Setting a feedback cycle that works for both
(agency and client) is quite relevant since several stakeholders are involved
in one project.

There could be a lot more to do on a project apart from web designing and not
keeping any set time for feedback will only lead to confusion among
stakeholders along with disrupting the other tasks involved in a single project.

Setting a feedback cycle that is comfortable for you as well as your client
will make things more streamlined.

After you have presented your design to the client, you can set a timeline by
which the client needs to send feedback. The time frame could be 24-48 hours or
more if several stakeholders are involved.

Simply asking for feedback as soon as your design work is not only
unprofessional but also will be a waste of time as the client wouldn’t probably
be around to give his/her feedback whenever asked.

This habit needs to be discouraged.

2. Not connecting the design to the actual business goal: So have made a
fantastic design with all the right hues and aesthetics and everything is
perfect according to your expertise and experience. But, the design actually
serves no purpose or connection to the business of your client.

What will it lead to? Your answer is as good as mine when together we will say
a big “NO”.

Nobody likes rejection, but the client is bound to reject your design and ask
you to redo it when you will submit something which actually didn’t make sense
in the first place.

This is a common error people make, jumping the gun and submitting the design
to client for feedback without forethought.

You need to make sure that your design actually connects with the business
goals of the client.

This way you will be able to garner constructive feedback which will be
connected to the bottom line rather than simply discussing the typography.

Eager To Know Web Design Best Practices – 10 Stunning Examples

3. Getting feedback in an unstructured way: If there is no process for feedback
collection, you might end up sitting in useless meetings wherein very generic
and lengthy feedback is shared which is inconsistent.

When you will ask the client or even your colleagues for that matter for
feedback, you will be given some extensive and unstructured feedback which will
be filled with personal opinions, thoughts, and viewpoints that have little or
nothing to do with the design’s business value.

Always keep the feedback process clear-cut and systematic without leaving room
for ambiguity.

4. Not detailing issues in writing: In a professional relationship, it is
always advisable to conduct all interactions and transactions in the written
mode. At least, the ones which are meant for getting the project in the right
direction.

You can also have a visual feedback service which will enable your client to
give explicit feedback in a practical way without involving him or you to waste
time in a meeting and point out all areas of the web design where changes are
needed.

 Learn About difference between Good design or Great Design

Addressing big issues early and that too in writing will help you do a great
job at your design will help you receive an explicit ok to move forward.

5. Not using any professional tool for getting feedback on design drafts:
Making use of design collaboration tools can be a great replacement for emails
or phone calls while you collect client feedback. Tools make your job easier
and make it possible to collect in-depth feedback without wasting time on
needless interaction.

Below are some of the tools that can be effectually utilized to collect
feedback in a more constructive way:

    • InVision App: InVision is a popular app for designers and developers
      which are used to collect feedback as well as collaborate on design
      drafts.
    • Framebench: With the help of Framebench, you can easily manage your
      design files and also keep your design feedback on the right track. It
      also has a mailbox from which design feedbacks can be communicated.
    • Red Pen: Another popular feedback tool that is simple and compact allows
      users to get feedback almost instantly.

A good design can be transformed into something better with the help of
constructive feedback.

However, collecting and giving out feedback is a crucial phase of a project in
which it is likely that people may take things personally.

By avoiding the above-mentioned mistakes and making use of some
feedback/collaboration tools designers and project managers can reach a
consensus and ensure an efficient and transparent feedback process.

 Discover 5 Web Design Trends

Best practices for collecting useful feedback

A diversity of opinions and feedbacks can help you in making your good design
even better. Here are a few tips and tricks which will help you in collecting
user feedback.

1. Although already mentioned, it is not enough to emphasize the relevance of
project management tools in collaborating with the client. Feedback will be
centralized as well as organized in this way and will help you make suitable
revisions.

2. Too many options can often lead to confusion in the mind of the client and
might overwhelm your reviewers; hence, it is advisable to limit the number of
options which will help in extracting relevant feedback.

3. Providing some data while presenting your design will help you in getting
your finest piece selected. Support your design decisions on the basis of user
experience, site performance, and conversions etc. with the help of some
usability tools. You can conduct this usability trial prior to submitting your
final designs.

4. It will be great if you try to demonstrate website interaction with the help
of your design choices. Create mockups with clickable links that will show how
the site performs, how will people land at a particular page etc. Based on some
demonstrated user experience, your client will be able to consider your designs
at a different level altogether.

5. Give your client adequate opportunities to collaborate and to provide
feedback at multiple intervals. Get regular feedback and approvals for
wireframes and other small sections of the big design from the clients and make
them have an ownership to the final product. This will make the client feel
useful and welcome and might also give you a window to work together again.

Creating a great web design is not a Herculean task for a qualified and
experienced web designer; however, the key lies in extracting the relevant
amount of feedback from the client which helps your design to become the best
they have ever seen.

Taking care of the usual mistakes and implementing the above tips can help you
create one masterpiece after another.

Contact us today for all your designing needs.

Request Free Pricing
Design


Similar posts

Events


SEMPO Hangouts Session- Web Design and User Experience

Designing a great website user experience requires understanding the problems.
Go through SEMPO Hangouts Session to know about the UX Design best...

Nishtha Jul 10, 2016
Design


Vital Principles for Quality Web Design

If you're working on a design for your website, make sure you follow or
consider these vital principles of web design to secure the first impressions.

Nishtha Nov 30, 2012
Design


5 Design Trends to Invest In 2017

What are the web design trends in 2017? let's explore 5 design trends to invest
in 2017 to give your website a serious facelift.

Nishtha Mar 12, 2017


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.