Featured


Increase your website traffic to 50% more by following these simple design
trends

Want to increase your website traffic? Read on to know the strategies to
increase your website traffic by 50% in 2019!

Nishtha
Aug 4, 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 0 minutes

How to increase traffic to your website or blog? That’s the questions everyone
asks.

You’ve optimized your site multiple times, but still, don’t see any
improvements?

This article is just about that! It’s got some great insights which you can
implement on your site.
So go ahead!

Follow these simple strategies that can show you an immediate increase in
traffic.

The website is the face of any business. The presentation of your website is
requisite to attract users to stay on your site.

Say you are going to a restaurant and ordering your favorite cuisine. Would you
prefer the food served without a good presentation or the one with a good
presentation?

No matter how tasty the food is, only the way it is presented to you will
attract you to have it compared to the plain serving of it.

The same goes for a website too. To have a good presentation on your website, a
good web design is required along with a few trending features.

Increasing your website traffic by changing per the trends might be a
challenging, but, by following these strategies you can surely see great
improvements.

Let me start out with an obvious fact: Site speed matters for SEO.

Page load time is an important search engine optimization factor! A faster
website increases conversions, too.

You can use tools such as Pingdom to check on your site speed.

Site speed is important, but it’s just one ranking factor among many.

Like most ranking factors, page load time alone won’t get you traffic, but a
slow speed will hold you back.

 Learn About NMG Google Pentalty Recovery Case Study

Second most important aspect is the UX with minimal design

Minimalistic designs, clear information and responsive pages are what you need.

Minimal designing help users focus on the valuable content. Moreover, the
minimalistic design helps your page load faster and faster-loading pages are
preferred by users and Google.

Quite a lot of best companies have achieved success by reaching a lot of
audience with its minimalistic designs.

Giants like Google and Apple adopted a very simple and intuitive approach to
design and UX.

This isn’t random or by chance – it’s just because they realized how minimalism
impacts the mindsets of their customers.

Minimalistic approach frees users from distraction and focuses on what is
important in the web page.

One of the keys to successful minimalist design is the effective use of
negative space. By negative space what we mean is white space, but it can be
another solid color that gels well with your layout design.

As a rule, the more negative space around an element, the more the eye is drawn
to it. There is a prevailing myth that white space is a waste of space but this
is not the case.

The reason for this is that web designers sometimes tend to overdo the white
space design to prove adverse.

The successful utilization of white space can be seen in iOS. White space is
soothing to the eye and it does not cloud your brain with a lot of data.

Another important aspect is the Responsive design

With the rapid rate of increase in the use of mobile devices, it is a sure shot
that mobile devices are going to outpace PCs for various tasks.

With this high smartphone penetration, it is necessary to have a design that
can adjust to any type of screen.

The only way of increasing mobile traffic is by making it compatible with
mobile devices since users accessing websites through the internet is high in
number.

Blogging
Blogging is the most cost-effective method that aids in the success of your
website by being an exceptionally rewarding source of inbound links, social
media shares, and lead generation tool.

The reason why blogging is cost-effective is that the ROI it gives for content
marketing is above par while compared to pay-per-click.

Blogging has its long-term benefits which are not seen by many of the
entrepreneurs.

Let me prove it with some stats for you,

According to the report published by Hubspot in 2017, 53% of marketers say blog
content creation is their top inbound marketing priority.

Write high-quality articles that engage your target customers and sparks their
interest. This will eventually persuade them to subscribe to your website.

Using high-quality content in your website will let other websites link bait
your content. Publishing link baits articles from time to time will rank you on
the top results of search engines.

 Eager to Know About Digital Marketing 101: A Complete Guide!

Blogging results in effective customer engagement that will establish your
brand and convince customers to buy your product.

Another way to increase traffic to your blog is to cover trending topics in
your blog posts.

These trending topics you choose should be relevant to your business and so
consolidate the keywords that are related to your business that you will be
including on the blog.

So you may ask, how do I get to know the current trending topic to include in
my blog?

This task is made easier for you by Google Trends which makes it easy for you
to stay updated on the trending topics in your region or all over the world.

Buzzsumo the Viral content publisher states that its most shared posts range
from 3,000-10,000 words. Having more number of words in your blog gives your
website more opportunities for SEO.

This means a higher conversion rate. Longer blog posts are good for backlinks
and organic leads giving your website a lot of evergreen content.

Paid Marketing Campaigns
Paid advertising is paying to display your product using online ads.

There are a lot of paid marketing campaigns like Banner advertising, AdWords,
Social media ads, Ads on newsletters etc. to increase your website’s traffic.

Paid marketing campaign helps you to highlight your products in a larger space
prominently to a larger audience.

These audiences are the ones who are already searching for the products in the
certain category you sell.

So once they find your name on the top of the page, they go for it with trust.
This way, a lot of traffic is driven to your site.

The data that is collected from the results can be used find and target
valuable keywords as well as learn more about your customer’s behavior trends.

You can choose from the options like pay per click and Pay Per Impression to
tap the best out of paid marketing for your business.

Pay Per Click – You will be charged only if a user clicks on the Ad and goes to
the website.

Pay Per Impression- you’ll be charged for every 1,000 impressions/views on your
ad.

Paid advertising distinguishes you from your competitors by giving you greater
online visibility which in turn drives lots and lots of traffic to your site.


Infographics
Compared to using 100 words to describe what is in your mind, illustrating the
same in a picture with a few catchy words that convey the crux of the website
is quicker and effective to magnetize customers buy your idea.

A study says that websites with infographics or any type of visual content has
94% additional views compared to their text-only counterparts. Make sure that
the content in the infographics

Make sure that the content in the infographics is conveying the same as your
business goals and endorse it in all possible ways. This will let you acquire a
lot of traffic and inbound links.

There are three methods to make your infographics join the viral social media
club.

1. Focusing end user
Your infographics should match the title content and audience of your website.
These have to be consistent

These have to be consistent with your goal. Make sure that the infographics and
its headlines are apt enough to attract the target users.

2. Creating a unique story

It has the characters that are familiar to the users as it helps them to
emotionally connect with your story.

3. Letting the numbers do the talking

End users love statistics as it helps them to build trust in your product. If
you have a blog, the number of visitors who have hit your blog will help you
gain user trust.

If you are a technology firm then the number of customers or projects were done
or customer testimonials build a great amount of trust in you.

Making this a part of your infographics will increase traffic.

3M-sponsored study at the University of Minnesota School of Management deduced
that the websites who use visual aids has increased traffic and are successful
in coaxing the target audience to take the desired action by 43%.

Email automation
Email marketing is one of the best marketing strategies that help you stay in
touch with your users and update them about latest brand promotions and coupons.

Email automation helps you to send bulk mails to your customers with a
personalized touch.

It provides you with high returns and saves your valuable time of writing
manual emails and sending it to customers manually.

Event-triggered automated emails can save 80 percent of a direct mail budget

Email automation benefits startups and small businesses to establish their
brand name and also retain their customers.

You can use it to update customers on the latest offers which will make them
return to your website for further purchase.

You can use email automation tools like Autopilot and Hatchbuck for your small
businesses and startups.

As a business, email automation lets you build a personalized relationship with
customers by sending welcome messages, festive greetings, birthday wishes etc.
which in turn lead to brand loyalty.

Follow-ups after a purchase and product reviews are also obtained through email
automation easily which will help your organization to establish itself and
increase traffic.

Conclusion:
After reading these tips, I hope that you are now familiar with the different
ways to drive traffic to your other than search engine optimization.

Increasing your website traffic is no great deal as it sounds to be, all it
needs is to stay up-to-date with the current trend and a pinch of creativity
combined with newness.

Each of this will drive a lot of traffic to your website undoubtedly. Make sure
that you equip your resources to handle the increase in traffic easily without
breaking.

You can also outsource the task by pitching in a trustworthy digital marketing
company to deliver it for you.

 Learn about 10 Effortless Ways to Find the Best Outsourcing Team

Now that you have all the action points, get set to take your website up the
competitive ladder.

Request Free Pricing
Featured


Similar posts

Design


Web Design Best Practices – 10 Stunning Examples

Is your website engaging enough for visitors? Keep your page looking fresh by
following these best website design practices for your website in 2022.

Nishtha Sep 10, 2017
Technology


Top Web Building Tools and Platforms

Looking for user-friendly website building platforms that help you manage your
website? Here’s the list of top website building tools & platforms for...

Nishtha Nov 16, 2017
Growth


How to Break up with your old website – it’s time to get a new one!

Using a strategy that fits into your workflow is an essential part of a
successful website redesign. Here's the list of website redesign process for...

Nishtha Oct 5, 2017


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.