Featured


NMG Technologies Made It on the List of Top Mobile App Development Companies at
GoodFirms

GoodFirms recognized and featured NMG Technologies among the top mobile
application development companies, pioneering software development companies,

Nishtha
Jan 25, 2019
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 4 minutes

GoodFirms recognized and featured NMG Technologies among the top mobile
application development companies, pioneering software development companies,
and top PHP development companies for its stupendous services in the mentioned
categories.

About NMG Technologies:

NMG Technologies is a global mobile and software development company with
offices in several countries – USA, Australia, UK, and India. The firm has 10+
years of experience in delivering fully functional mobile app, web, and
software development solutions that accomplish the clients’ business needs. The
company has adopted the Scrum project development methodology that helps in
maintaining project transparency and consistency.

GoodFirms’ Research Methodology:

GoodFirms is a prominent research and review platform through which the service
seekers can opt among the best-listed companies. The listing depends upon their
achievements on the GoodFirms three crucial parameters – Quality, Reliability,
and Ability.

NMG climbed the GoodFirms’ research ladder and achieved a vibrant position for
the following categories:

1. Mobile App Development

NMG Technologies achieved a remarkable position on the list of top app
development companies at GoodFirms.

How did NMG manage to pull off this astonishing position at GoodFirms?

NMG builds excellent applications for every kind of business requirements. In a
very short span of time, it has developed 1000+ iOS, and Android mobile apps.

The company actively offers services in app development, mobile web, app
designing, maintenance and support, app deployment to Apple store, and app
development for wearables.

Here is a ScoreCard that portrait the achievements of NMG Technologies at
GoodFirms:

Have a look at the praiseworthy reviews received by NMG Technologies at
GoodFirms for its astonishing services:

“Everyone from NMG was great to work. They were responsive and fully invested
themselves in my vision for our pricing application. Their ability to
understand a very complex business model and adapt their platform to my needs
is what we liked the most about the company.”

– Brandon Kent, VP, at Telemark Diversified Graphics

Looking at the noteworthy client reviews, scorecard, company’s excellence in
offering app services and other related facts, it has earned a phenomenal
position on the GoodFirms list of the best app developers.

2. Software Development

NMG Technologies manages to grab a prominent position on the list of top
software developers at GoodFirms.

How NMG avouched to arrive on the GoodFirms’ top list?

The firm focus on offering the entire gamut of services like new software
development, re-using legacy codes, assimilating with the client’s current
systems, cloud management, and customized software development to ease the
complex business functionalities.

The organization has a dedicated team of highly experienced developers who
leverage contemporary technologies to deliver exceptional solutions to clients.
Their out of the box service delivery process increases the success rate of the
client’s software applications.

The company has designed and developed software for various industries like
automotive, education, healthcare, hospitality, government, IT, financials,
consumer durables, retail, eCommerce, logistics, entertainment, and music.

At GoodFirms, the clients of NMG appreciated the working pattern of the company
and their timely delivery. They recommend NMG Technologies for a vast array of
software solutions.

3. PHP Development

NMG Technologies makes it on the list of top PHP developers at GoodFirms.

How NMG proliferates on the list of GoodFirms?

Apart from the excellent services, NMG is also a specialist in PHP
implementation and execution. The organization has 60+ PHP developers who have
successfully delivered 150+ PHP based solutions.

The PHP services for various businesses include solutions for retail eCommerce,
Custom CMS (simple publishing, complex apps, and enterprise level SaaS),
Marketplace (eLearning, staffing, and multi-vendor apps), Media Streaming
(Apache, Red5, Wowza).

Client’s congenial reviews at GoodFirms vouch for NMG’s excellent PHP service
offerings:

We chose to work with NMG after interviewing/vetting ten web development
companies from around the world. NMG won our business because of their deep
understanding in .PHP and web design. The team is highly qualified and
talented. The attention to detail is excellent. Choosing to work with NMG has
been one of the best business decisions our company has made in 10+ years.

– Nate Hart Senior Director, Infrastructure at Competiscan

The striking PHP knowledge and exceptional business offerings rank them among
the top PHP development companies at GoodFirms.

About GoodFirms:

Washington, D.C. based GoodFirms is a maverick B2B research and reviews firm
that aligns its efforts with finding the top software development and app
development companies delivering unparalleled services to its clients.
GoodFirms’ extensive research process ranks the companies, boosts their online
reputation and helps service seekers pick the right technology partner thxat
matches their business needs.

Featured


Similar posts

Featured


Consulting can save you from building a bad tech

This article can be used a guide by business owners who are looking to build a
saas product for their business, a marketing head who is looking to...

Nishtha Aug 30, 2019
Growth


Requirement Gathering: How We Solve The Biggest Problems With Consulting

Requirements Gathering, Project Development, Web Development, HTML, SRS
Document, System Specification Requirement

Nishtha Jan 28, 2016
Web


Need a New Ecommerce Site for Your Business? Our Prices Start From $999

NMG offers best solutions or ecommerce site development at affordable prices.
We specialize in custom E-commerce website development. Contact us...

Nishtha Oct 16, 2015


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.