Skip to content

Search


Full-Service Mobile App Design Company

Boost conversions via innovative mobile design solutions in your competitive
space

Our Mobile app design involves creating intuitive and visually appealing
interfaces for mobile applications with more user interaction as its core goal.
NMG Technologies offers top-notch Mobile App Design services with a
mobile-first approach for a and flawless user experience across smartphones,
tablets, and desktops. By prioritizing user-friendliness and optimizing for
conversions, we help businesses attract more leads, drive higher sales, and
achieve their business goals. Get your mobile design upgrade today!

    • SERVICES
    • User Interface Design
    • Mobile Design
Our Services


Our Mobile App Design Services

Our Mobile App Services at NMG Technologies are meticulously designed to meet
the highest standards of quality and innovation. Our mobile app design agency
gains an in-depth comprehension of business goals, analyzes the audience,
examines the competitive landscape and crafts strategies that resonate and
drive impactful results.



Responsive Design

We build mobile apps with flawless function and digital solutions employing
adaptive design that look and feel well on any device. Our dedicated team of
designers ensures a smooth and consistent user experience on mobiles with their
technical expertise so that users can have seamless performance using phones
and tablets on-the-go.



Custom App Design

Crafting unique mobile designs that capture your brand’s identity and values,
we make your unique brand values stand out and resonate with your audience. Our
bespoke mobile solutions are tailored to your business-specific &
industry-specific needs.



UI/UX Design

We create engaging user experiences with intuitive, visually appealing
interfaces that captivate audiences. Delivering ease in navigation, we make
mobile interactions effortless for the end-users and drive higher engagement.



Interactive Design

Our goal is to design user-friendly interfaces that deliver exceptional UX. By
dynamic mobile interfaces that prioritize engagement, we ensure every
interaction is seamless and becomes a delightful experience.


Our Mobile App Design Process.

    • Initial Consultation
      We engage in in-depth discussions to grasp your industry-specific needs
      and define how to best utilize our mobile design capabilities for you.
    • Defining Scope of Work
      We outline the scope, features, functionalities, and technical
      specifications to brainstorm and create Project Management & Monitoring
      plans.
    • Design & Prototyping
      User interface (UI) and user experience (UX) for mobile designs are
      created and wireframes and prototypes are developed in this stage.
    • Development & Integration
      We implement the best mobile design practices to build feature-rich and
      visually appealing responsive mobile design solutions that deliver
      exceptional UX.
    • Testing & Quality Assurance
      We conduct rigorous testing across devices and browsers to eliminate bugs
      and ensure seamless functioning.
    • Deployment & Training
      We launch the mobile design and make it live. Our designers also ensure
      its smooth operation.
    • Maintenance & Support
      We provide ongoing support, updates, and maintenance to ensure optimal
      mobile design performance.
Technology Stack


Our core technologies to design intuitive mobile navigation and an engaging
user interface include.

    • Front-end
    • Back-end
    • Databases
    • Design Tools
    • HTML
      Going beyond themes and templates, HTML lets us customize structure and
      content and gives complete control.
    • CSS
      We develop the visual style & aesthetics of web portals & apps using CSS
      and render a compelling design.
    • JavaScript
      The language for front-end development we utilize to build web portalsin
      real-time.
    • React.js
      A popular library we use to build web portal user interfaces.
    • Angular.js
      A powerful framework for building dynamic and complex web portal
      applications.
    • Python (with frameworks like Django or Flask)
      A versatile language known for its readability and extensive libraries.
    • Node.js (with frameworks like Express.js)
      A JavaScript runtime environment that enables server-side JavaScript
      development.
    • Java (with frameworks like Spring)
      A robust and widely-used language for enterprise-level applications.
    • PHP
      A popular language for web development, often used with frameworks like
      Laravel or Symfony.
    • .NET (with frameworks like ASP.NET Core)
      A powerful framework developed by Microsoft, known for its performance
      and security.
    • MySQL
      A widely used open-source relational database system.
    • PostgreSQL
      A powerful and feature-rich open-source relational database.
    • MongoDB
      A popular document-oriented database, offering flexibility and
      scalability for handling unstructured data.
    • Cassandra
      A highly scalable and distributed NoSQL database, designed for handling
      large-volume data.
    • Figma
      A popular vector graphics editor and prototyping tool for UI/UX design.
    • Adobe XD
      A vector-based design tool for UX/UI and prototyping.
    • Sketch
      A popular vector graphics editor primarily used for interface design.
    • InVision
      A prototyping, collaboration and workflow platform.


Why Choose us as Your Mobile Design Company?

NMG’s inventive designers are committed to delivering the best mobile
solutions. Hire us for our:

    • Expertise
      We specialize in designing and developing innovative mobile apps that
      drive user engagement.
    • Innovation
      Working closely with you throughout the development pWe utilize
      cutting-edge technologies and innovative design practices to stay ahead
      of the curve and deploy new engagement touchpoints in your
      projects.rocess for seamless communication and understanding
    • Customization
      We offer bespoke solutions specifically designed to address your unique
      business needs.
    • Customer-Centricness

      Our team ensures your project flows smoothly, keeping you informed and
      your audiences engaged through mobile design at every stage.


Hire our Top Class Mobile App Designers .

NMG Technologies offers a bridge to achieve business objectives through design
excellence by delivering an interactive user interface and a seamless mobile
experience. Our expertise spans across various industries, allowing us to
address your specific requirements and deliver mobile designs tailored to meet
your business needs. Get your mobile design system just right with top-tier
Mobile Design services.

Book an Appointment


Benefits of Responsive Mobile Design

We live in a mobile-first digital space in which utilizing a responsive design
that adapts to small screen size effortlessly has numerous perks such as:
    • Better User Experience - Your audience doesn’t want to zoom in & out
      continually rather a consistent design with easy navigation that
      responsiveness offers.
    • Increased Engagement - A mobile-friendly design enhances readability and
      navigation for small screens. This drives meaningful interactions and
      better engagement.
    • More Conversions - Effortlessly intuitive interfaces designed for mobile
      guide user actions well, enhance engagement and conversions.


Our Mobile Design Best Practices.

NMG’s inventive designers create exceptional mobile experiences with adherence
to design principles that deliver a good UX and functionality. Generally, these
design practices include:

    • Intuitive Navigation
      We focus on streamlined navigation that lets users find what they need
      swiftly & maximizes efficiency and effortlessness in design.
    • Clear Readability
      Mobiles’ small screens need large fonts so we ensure the content is
      placed in crisp, clear fonts, perfectly sized to be easily scanned by
      users.
    • Faster Load Time
      We build mobile apps designed to load within seconds. We deploy designs
      that have unnoticeable load time and more engagement.
    • Thumb-Friendliness

      We optimize button sizes and spacing for effortless touch interactions,
      delivering an intuitive experience across all devices to users.

    • Design Consistency
      We create a good visual hierarchy using consistent mobile design patterns
      and render polished and professional aesthetics.


Discover the Latest Mobile Design Patterns

Using the latest mobile patterns to create visually appealing, user-friendly
and engaging mobile solutions. Some of these include eye-friendly &
battery-saving dark mode, minimalist design, micro-interactions such as the use
of a splash screen, voice user interface, using UI cards to display content,
breadcrumbing, continuous scrolling and more. Our creative designers use these
to create captivating visual & UI experiences.

client speak


Your Journey, Our Expertise:
Results-Driven Successful Partnerships

"NMG is my sigh of relief. Finding an SEO agency, you can trust to create
data-driven, Advanced SEO and Content Marketing strategies while staying
focused on your unique business and achieving the desired results is rare. The
personal attention they give to our projects and their ownership over the
results help us fulfill our mission to enable every person on Earth to travel
freely."
Mohak Nahta
CEO and Founder, Atlys Inc
“If you are looking for a company that truly cares about your business and your
success, look no further than NMG. Their team is knowledgeable, trustworthy,
and committed to delivering results that exceed expectations.”
Mihir Trivedi
Head of Marketing
“NMG Technologies provided a detailed specification document and appropriate
software solutions from the outset, delivering results very close to the
original proposal. The team was available to discuss issues, replied promptly
to emails, and provided constant updates.”

Sai Karan Vedulla
London & Partners,
VP & Chief Representative

"What set NMG apart from other companies was their experience in managing
complex programs and their strategic insights in the B2B segment. They did an
excellent job throughout the whole project and provided a level of assurance
and comfort in their abilities that others could not match"

Steve Delvecchia
VP Digital Engagement,
Resources Connection Inc.
(NASDAQ Listed)

Our Awards


Recognitions & Awards.

Our Process


Our Blogs.

We guide you from concept to launch of your successful Magento online store.
Our iterative Magento development process focuses on collaboration and
flexibility.


Never Miss a Goal with Koora Break!

Developed by NMG Technologies, Experience Football Like Never Before with Saudi
Arabia's Award-Winning Soccer App.

February 23, 2024

Read More


NMG Technologies to Participate in Mobile Word Capital Barcelona – the world’s
largest and most influential connectivity event

NMG Technologies to Participate in Mobile Word Capital Barcelona – the world’s
largest and most influential connectivity event

February 16, 2024

Read More


NMG Technologies Participated in Softwave 2023, The Republic of Korea Software
Exhibition

NMG Technologies Participated in Softwave 2023, The Republic of Korea Software
Exhibition

November 29, 2023

Read More
Support


FAQ’s.


What are the 8 rules of mobile design?

The eight rules of mobile design include easy navigation, scannable text,
lightning-fast load times, thumb-friendly design, a minimalistic approach with
a balance of white space, design consistency, user-centricness and mobile-first
approach.


Should I design for mobile-first?

Yes, you should design mobile-first as the majority of web users browse on
mobiles.


What is mobile app design called?

Mobile app design is known as UI/UX design for mobile applications.


How much does mobile app design cost?

The average mobile app design cost varies from $3000 to $30,00. It depends on
the complexity, platforms, design requirements and more.