Skip to content

Search


Create App - Detailed Guide to App UI Design for Mobile App Developers

Complete mobile application development guide to help you design and develop
the best-in-class Android and iOS apps

1. Today most of the time is spent consuming digital media on mobile apps.
2. Users spend about 90 percent of their time using applications on mobile
devices.
3. Around 85 percent of users prefer native mobile apps on mobile.
4. About 42 percent of mobile sales of Fortune 500 organizations are done
through mobile apps.

Table of Content

Chapter 7 Chapter 9


CHAPTER 8


Mobile App Developer

Here we are going to discuss mobile app developers. We will understand, “What
does a mobile app developer do?” and “What skills are needed for mobile app
developers?”

You will also get to know, “What are the best resources for mobile app
developers?”

Take a peep!


What is a mobile app developer?

Mobile applications can be developed for specific operating systems, for
example, iOS, Android, or Windows.

Application developers are experts in specific development zone like graphics,
software, mobile applications, financial applications, and office suites.

Did you know what a mobile app developer does? Well, most of you would say yes,
but to know everything in detail, we will now discuss what a mobile app
developer does.


What does a mobile app developer do?

When an application is completed and ready for launch, the application designer
works on an update, released for the public to solve their purpose. However,
the tasks of a mobile app developer are not limited to design and development;
instead, the list contains a lot more.

To understand a mobile app developer, you’ll have to first dive deep into their
specific types.

There are three types of app developers:

1. Mobile App Developer
More and more people are using smartphones instead of desktops or laptops to do
their activities. This becomes possible only because mobile applications make
it easier to solve the users’ tasks using mobile devices.

Mobile developers are specialized in making mobile applications.

Instead of creating software for PCs, these developers create Android and iOS
mobile devices software applications.

Mobile developers are experienced in building multimedia applications using
suitable portable computer programming languages.

Old languages like Objective-C are not migrated to new programming languages
that generate the need to use Swift for iOS and macOS app development and Java
and Android Studio (by Google) for Android app development.

There are two types of developers, according to the operating system. One is
Android App Developer, and the other is iOS App Developer.

2. Android Developer
A developer who creates applications for Android devices is known as an Android
developer.

There are various types of tasks that an Android developer performs when
developing an Android app.

Roles of an Android developer

    • Create and design high-performing and best UI experience Android
      applications for mobile devices.
    • Work with cross-functional teams to design, define, and implement new
      features.
    • Continuously evaluate and implement the latest and trending development
      tools
    • Android developers work with external data and APIs
    • Troubleshoot all the existing and new application issues.

3. iOS Developers
An iOS developer creates applications for all Apple's OS powers.

A good iOS developer is experienced in two programming languages: Objective-C
and Swift.

An iOS developer must have a solid understanding of the latest trends and
practices.

Roles of an iOS Developer

    • An iOS developer handles the role of creating and developing iOS
      applications.
    • His role is to ensure the quality, performance, and accountability of the
      iOS application.
    • Collaboration with a team to analyze, design, and show results.
    • A developer needs to maintain organization, quality, and automation of
      code.
    • He should maintain excellent communication and decision-making skills.
    • His role is to maintain a track record of releasing high-quality apps and
      services


What skills are needed for a mobile app developer?

There are various skills of a mobile app developer that you can read in detail.

    • Analytics Skills
      A mobile application developer must analyze the users before developing a
      mobile app.
      This ability to analyze the users before development is very crucial for
      a mobile app developer to develop a successful mobile application.

    • Communication Skills
      A mobile developer must have excellent communication skills in oral and
      written communication.
      They must have the ability to communicate technical and non-technical
      concepts to their teammates.

    • Technical Knowledge
      Knowledge of programming languages like Java, Objective C, and Swift is
      required to become a successful mobile developer.
      Android developers mostly use Java and Android Studio for mobile app
      development, whereas iOS developers use Swift and Objective-C.
      They must have technical knowledge of their respective platforms.

    • Creativity
      A mobile developer needs to write clean code to make user-friendly
      applications.
      Developers must think creatively about how users use their smartphones in
      their lives.
      After doing creative research, they build applications that help the
      users to accomplish different tasks.

    • Problem-Solving
      Troubleshooting the application is one of the major tasks of a mobile
      developer.
      A developer needs to understand the problem and find a solution to fix
      the problem.
      We will now understand the various resources for mobile applications that
      keep developers updated about the latest trends.


What are the best resources for mobile app developers?

There are various resources for mobile application developers to get updates
and learn new tricks.

These resources are available under particular categories like news,
inspiration, community and books, and research papers.


News

News resources provide the regular updates and trends that a developer needs
during mobile application development.

Here are the best news resources for mobile application developers:

    • Android Weekly
      Android Weekly is a free newsletter and helps you stay ahead in your
      Android development.

News Resources for Mobile App Developers

    • iOS Dev Weekly
      You can subscribe to iOS Dev Weekly to get a hand-picked round-up of the
      best iOS development links every week.


News Resources for Mobile App Developers

    • MacRumors
      MacRumors has a big audience of both consumers and interested
      professionals who are in the latest technologies and products.

News Resources for Mobile App Developers

    • Android Headlines
      Get the latest Android & Google News about Android Phones, Apps, and
      Games on Android Headlines.

News Resources for Mobile App Developers

    • Android Police
      You can look for anything on Android Police.


News Resources for Mobile App Developers

Tricks, Tips, and Tutorials
These resources provide tricks and tips to developers for developing mobile
applications. In addition, developers can also get online tutorials from the
given resource for mobile application development.

These are resources for tricks, tips, and tutorials:

    • Android Open Source
      Android Open Source Project (AOSP) is a repository that provides
      essential information and source code to develop custom variants of the
      Android operating system.


News Resources for Mobile App Developers

It provides information on how to port accessories and devices to the Android
platform and ensures that the devices maintain the Android ecosystem.

    • Tutsplus
      With Tutsplus, you can update your app daily by searching for more than
      20750 "how-to" tutorials.

      Find online courses and videos to help you learn skills like code,
      photography, web design, and more.
    • Android Arsenal
      Android Arsenal is a categorized directory of free libraries and tools
      for Android.

News Resources for Mobile App Developers

    • Codementor
      Codementor is one of the biggest communities for developer mentorship. In
      addition, Codementor provides an on-demand marketplace for software
      developers.

News Resources for Mobile App Developers

There are also resources for inspiration like Inspired UI, Android Niceties,
Fragmented Podcast, Android Developer stories, and Android Developers YouTube
channel.