Events


NMG Technologies Participated in Softwave 2023, The Republic of Korea Software
Exhibition

NMG Technologies Participated in Softwave 2023, The Republic of Korea Software
Exhibition

Nishtha
Nov 29, 2023
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 15 minutes


The Softwave, software exhibition happened in Seoul from 29 November-1 December
2023. The event featured a range of encompassing a variety of SW convergence
fields such as Web 3.0, AI, Augmented Reality, NFT/Content, RPA, Mobile
Communication, Fintech, Healthcare, Autonomous Driving, and Security.

NMG Technologies is excited to announce that it participated in Korea’s leading
software-ICT business fair from 29th Nov-1st Dec 2023 in Seoul, Korea. The
event brought together tech professionals worldwide to explore new worlds and
discover what’s next for tech and humanity. The exhibition’s focus was on
innovative growth in the wave of great change. As one of the leading mobile app
providers, custom web/software development, AI/ML applications, and Advance
Search Marketing cutting-edge services, NMG connected with fellow industry
leaders and shared our expertise at the exhibition.

Rohit Maheshwari, Director of NMG Technologies, commented on the company’s
participation, stating that “This was a remarkable event, and we enjoyed being
a part of it. We believe this event provided a valuable opportunity for us to
connect with industry leaders and discuss the future of software technology.”

With its impressive list of NASDAQ-Listed Enterprise Clients such as RGP Inc.,
Nikon Corporation, WHO & Oxfam – NMG Technologies has always delivered the
right services and values to its customers.

The NMG team was present at Coex Hall A Samsungdong, Seoul,Korea.

About NMG Technologies

NMG is a global software company specializing in custom development services.
We have served over 500 clients with mobile app development, web development,
software development, Python development, beta testing, automation testing, and
e-commerce solutions. We maintain high-quality standards during each project
using only the latest technologies. With 15 years of experience and satisfied
customers worldwide, NMG Technologies takes pride in its work!

Contact Details:

Email – info@nmgtechnologies.com

Las Vegas:+1 702 637 1676

New Delhi: +91-124-4424655

Events


Similar posts

Outsourcing


Best Practices of Offshore Software Development

It is very important to identify the challenges and risks of an offshore custom
software development company and mitigate them properly.

Nishtha Jun 1, 2012
Technology


.NET Core: 20 Advantages of Building Your Software in ASP.NET Core

Microsoft has now launched Asp.NET Core as a high performance, open-source,
modern, cloud-based framework to build enterprise applications.

Nishtha Feb 3, 2020
Featured


NMG Technologies Made It on the List of Top Mobile App Development Companies at
GoodFirms

GoodFirms recognized and featured NMG Technologies among the top mobile
application development companies, pioneering software development companies,

Nishtha Jan 25, 2019


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.