Skip to content

Search


Mobile Friendly Websites

Mobile-friendly websites are a crucial part of your software development plan -
as there have been more google search queries on smartphones than on desktop
computers and tablets for over a year now. You can either optimize your desktop
site to be mobile friendly or design a new, limited information mobile version
of your desktop site. The bar for responsiveness and mobile-friendliness
(including page load time) will only increase hence all our websites and
software are focused on building seamless web and mobile experience.


Performance Optimization

Painfully slow loading speeds of websites can frustrate any user.

53% of users leave if a mobile site takes more than 3 seconds to load. Even
then - 3 out of 4 mobile sites have load times of over 10 seconds. It’s a big
problem!

Mobile sites that load in 5 seconds or less generate 2X the revenue than those
which take longer. Page speed is utmost important when it comes conversions
rates via mobile site.

NMG takes prior measures to make your site load fast on mobile and tablet
devices by

    • Focusing on reducing the number of server requests.
    • Running diagnostics to check which files are using up most of the bytes
      of your pages.
    • Prioritizing the elements that needs to be displayed above the fold


Responsive Design Approach

We follow responsive web design approach for all our web design work such that
the design responds to the user’s behavior and environment based on screen
size, platform and orientation.

By using a mix of flexible grids and layouts, images and an intelligent use of
CSS media queries, the website automatically switches to accommodate for
resolution, image size and scripting abilities - as the user switches from
device to device

65% of the traffic to ecommerce stores comes from mobile shoppers. And one of
the most important reason why these people love shopping from mobile is due to
the responsive design.


Flexible layouts

Making your mobile site flexible with use of flexible images, easy to use
navigation and flexible content blocks can greatly enhance your users
experience and encourage them to continue using the site on mobile browser -
leading to better mobile conversion rates.

Uncluttered page ensures greater readability hence arranging page elements in a
neat order, with an effortless browsing flow will make your site flexible to
resolutions and screen sizes.

    • Images loads fast
    • Clear pricing information
    • Bold and prominent CTA button, and
    • Product descriptions made easily readable and accessible


Provide Seamless and Easy Checkout

One of the main reasons why customers abandon shopping carts is due to
inconvenient checkout processes.

In fact, 28% of people abandon carts if the checkout is long and complicated.
Another 37% of people ditch their carts if the site mandates creating an
account.

These issues are even more marked in the mobile experience. Its more than
important to avoid the above by designing checkout pages keeping in mind the
following:

    • Keep the mobile check out page as short as possible.
    • Don’t clutter the page with too many fields
    • Don’t insist on the user creating an account to purchase.
    • Make sure that the total cost of cart items is displayed prominently.
    • Provide easy payment methods with gateways that process the requests fast.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------