Marketing


Google Penalty Recovery Case Study – How We Lifted An Unnatural Link Penalty
For E-commerce Client in 5 steps!

A Google Penalty Recovery Case Study about how we helped a client recover his
website from An unnatural Link Penalty in less than 3 weeks...

Nishtha
Jul 23, 2014
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 9 minutes

This is a case study about how we helped a client recover his website from one
of the most distressing instances in the SEO world – An unnatural Link Penalty,
in less than 3 weeks.In this blog we have outlined what the problem was, how we
fixed it in just 5 steps, and how we successfully filed for Google
reconsideration request. We hope you will find it helpful!

This case started in March, 2014. When the client received a penalty mail from
Google.

When the client approached us, site rankings were lost and traffic was going
down at a very rapid pace. We were happy with the opportunity to help him out
and recover his website from Google’s unnatural link penalty.

We’re going to explain exactly how we did this. – Enjoy and learn!


Steps Taken to revoke Google Unnatural Link Penalty: (In a Nut Shell)


Step 1: Backlink analysis


Step 2: Data compilation and segregation


Step 3: Identifying low quality links


Step 4: Sending link removal request and using Google Disavow tool


Step 5: Submitting the reconsideration request to Google


Tools we have used:

    • Google Webmaster
    • Open Site Explorer
    • Majestic SEO
    • Ahrefs
    • LRT (Link Research Tools)


Step -1 Backlink Analysis

It’s not easy to plan anything until we have clear picture of what went wrong
and where ?

We were aware that we wouldn’t be able to reach the root of the problem, unless
we analyze the website backlink profiles. So, with the help of the some of the
best industry leading tools like Google Webmaster Tools, Majestic SEO, Open
Site Explorer, Ahreafs and Link Research Tools, we pulled in a list of all
links pointing to the website from different sources and segmeneted backlinks
into different categories


What type of links could be the possible cause for penalty?

    • Low quality directories
    • Sidewide links
    • Hidden Text Links
    • Footer links
    • Advertisment link without nofollow attribution
    • Widget Links
    • Link Schemes
    • Doorway Pages
    • Scraped content
    • Links built by Participating in affiliate programs without adding
      sufficient value



Why we used these tools in particular?

Google Webmaster Tools for obvious reasons is the first recommendation by
Google and Matt Cutts responded recently saying the following:

“It’s certainly the case that we endeavor to show examples from the set of
links returned by Webmaster Tools, and likewise we prefer to assess
reconsideration requests on that basis of those links. However, if there’s a
really good example link that illustrates a problem, we do leave enough room to
share that link, especially because it can help point the webmaster in a better
direction to diagnose and fix issues.”

We personally believed in job accuracy and collected as much data as possible
using all available tools.

For best results, we added both the www. and the non-www. forms of the domain
to Webmaster tool and collected links from both sources.


Step -2 Data Compilation and Segregation

Once we gathered complete data, we compiled it in a Google Spreadsheet, so we
could track the work and could see exactly where we stand in the link removal
process. This step is really crucial as this helps a lot while sending a
reconsideration request to Google and they can judge with ease that what the
webmaster has done to sort the issues with your website.

The only problem we faced and probably you will also encounter is the lot of
repeated links.

Tip: Import data from a CSV into separate sheets within the same document and
you can insert a column that contain only domain name and can highlight
duplicate domains (Links)

Once we were done with the data extraction, we added the following columns to
each sheet-

    • Contact Name
    • Contact Email Address
    • Website Contact Form
    • Phone No.
    • Twitter URL
    • Facebook URL
    • Google+ URL
    • LinkedIn URL
    • Date of 1st Contact
    • Date of 2nd Contact
    • Date of 3rd Contact
    • Link Status
    • Notes


Step – 3 Spotting Low Quality Links

This is the most important step of the entire recovery process and needs a lot
of hard work and attention as this could prove to be a little tricky. After the
data compilation, we segregated links through a manual process to fall under
particular categories like

    • Widget Links
    • Low quality directories
    • Sidewide links
    • Hidden Text Links
    • Footer links
    • Advertisment link without nofollow attribution
    • Widget Links
    • Duplicate content URLs
    • Low Domain authority websites
    • Paid links
    • Redirect URLs
    • 403, 404, 522, 524, Account suspended, the domain name expired, fatal
      error, server error, server down, serve issue etc.

As expected, there were many spammy and low quality links that needed a cure.
We manually reviewed each and every link and analyzed against quality
guidelines to qualify links that need to be removed or kept as a good quality
link.


Wondering, how to spot spammy links?

Some links were easy to recognize, as they were hosted on well reputed,
authority websites. On the same side, it was easy to spot some spammy links as
well that were listed on a website along with a multitude of links on the same
web page. The simplest way to identify a low quality link is to guess from the
page context if the link has been placed purely for Link Buidling motive on the
website. If yes, then it is most likely unnatural.

Some other decision making considerations that we followed to reach a
conclusion (link removal) were:
    • Links across every page of website
    • The site contains keywords like ‘links’, ‘SEO’,’Directory’ etc. in name
      or URL
    • The site automatically accepts links without any manual review or
      verification process
    • The site has lots of spam links pointing to it
    • The site has categories for everything imaginable
    • Site shows advertisement with do follow links etc.


Step – 4 Sending Link Removal Request And The Magic Of Disavow Tool

Once we spotted all the Unnatural links and the next obvious step was to find
email IDs of the webmaster of all websites mentioned on your final list. In
this process, you might see some websites will not have proper contact details,
but there could be a contact form on the website that can still solve the
purpose. In worst case if form is not available check their contact details
using WHO.is or other registry data provider. Outreach to webmaster:

We outreached the webmaster of the respective domains to remove the link
permanently.

Sample Template:

We kept the request mail short, simple, polite without spamming the webmaster
with multiple emails at once. Some replied in a co-operative manner but some of
them were asking for money to remove links and some of them were not responding
to our E-mails.


How to deal with beggers:

We have asked them that if they will not remove our links we will submit their
website to Google disavow and which could be negative for their own website.

What exactly we told them is a secret sauce!


How to deal with webmaster those are not replying to your e-mail:

Webmaster can have a bunch of domains and where they are running a web
directory, forum, spammy blog etc. just for the sake of earning money through
link placement, advertisement or other means and hence, there is no motivation
for them to take a look on e-mails until unless it’s a money making scheme.We
have outreached them via phone and it’s gives better results as compared to
e-mails.

The next step was to take a screenshot of e-mails and replies sent and paste
them on the spreadsheet as a proof of your hard work for Reconsideration
request.

Tip: You can use Jing or other screen capture tools for screenshot.

Remember– Google doesn’t want you to remove all of the bad links as sometimes
it’s not in your hands too and that’s why they have provided Disavow tool. From
the Spread sheet, Google (Reconsideration request reviewer) wants to see that
you have made a true attempt to get rid of as many of the unnatural links as
possible.

Remember – Google will not consider that you are a big brand or a small
business who is participating in link scheme, blog network etc. to gain
artificial authority. They treat them equally so it’s your job as an SEO to
maintain link profile and implement strategies that will earn natural links day
and night instead of building links.

After doing the above process, we used the disavow tool to get rid of the
remaining offensive links for which we haven’t received any response even after
3rd attempt.

By this time, we had all our data sorted on the spreadsheet and knew which were
the actual links we were unable to remove. Google has very good and
comprehensive guide written on How to use a Disavow Tool. It helped us a lot!

To be systematic and detailed, we chose to disavow whole domain instead of
individual URLs, so that if any links that we are not able to capture using
tools, can be removed from Google Index.

Note– Do not try to smart play and use the Disavow tool as means to skip the
above tasks, as that will not work and will not produce any results.

“Google wants to see true efforts made to remove low quality links!”



Step -5 Submitting The Reconsideration Request To Google

A reconsideration request is the final step towards penalty recovery! One thing
that is worth considering is that Google will never take a half-hearted
reconsideration request seriously. You have to demonstrate the changes and
prove that efforts being done with the commitment those things won’t repeat in
future. To make this happen, we recommend some tips-

    • Provide a complete brief from beginning on why your website is penalised
      and what steps you have taken to comply with Google Guidelines.
    • Explain that you understand your fault and explain what changes you have
      adopted to avoid this happen again. Be honest and do not try to push the
      blame elsewhere.
    • It is advisable to notify the webmaster three times through e-mails prior
      to using disavow tool. It may be worth it to provide examples in the form
      of screenshots of the conversation in case the webmaster refuses to
      remove the link.
    • The Google Spreadsheet that you prepared with all links removed or marked
      to be disavowed should be shared in your reconsideration request to
      Google.

Only submit a reconsideration request if you are completely satisfied that all
appropriate actions have been taken to fix the issues associated with the
website.

Here is a reconsideration request we have submitted on 22nd April, 2014…


And…

One fine morning you’ll open your email with a message in your webmaster tools
that’s similar to the following:


Result

The penalty from the client website is removed successfully and the site will
start appearing back in search results.


Good luck and if you have any questions or other considerations regarding your
website, please get in touch with us.

Google Penalty Recovery Case Study – New Media Guru

Marketing


Similar posts

Featured


NMG Technologies Made It on the List of Top Mobile App Development Companies at
GoodFirms

GoodFirms recognized and featured NMG Technologies among the top mobile
application development companies, pioneering software development companies,

Nishtha Jan 25, 2019
Growth


Requirement Gathering: How We Solve The Biggest Problems With Consulting

Requirements Gathering, Project Development, Web Development, HTML, SRS
Document, System Specification Requirement

Nishtha Jan 28, 2016
Outsourcing


Top Ways to Find The Right Outsourcing Company

To find the right outsourcing company, narrow down your needs to ease the
comparison process in this extremely noisy marketplace.

Nishtha Aug 30, 2019


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.