Design


Good design or Great Design – Which one does your business need?

Ready to make sure your Web design is looking its best? Read on to know about
the best Practices for web designing.

Nishtha
Mar 26, 2015
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 2 minutes

Face it, we all know what a bad website design looks like and none of us wants
our business to have one.
Did you know that the distinction between a good and bad design is the same as
that between a good and great design?

There are practices used to make a good design, proper use of color, clean
typography, responsive and minimal design, etc. But what makes a great design?

Learn About  Web Design Best Practices – 10 Stunning Examples

Conversion Rates: From a marketers perspective the conversion rate of visitors
is what drives a good design into a great design.

A psychological standpoint shows that if a site does the visitor feels a sense
of connection with the design they will become more involved with the business.

Overall an effective design is almost always preferable over an attractive one.

Attention to small details: For a site to be great, you should have a
perfectionist bend of mind.

Keep every detail of the site in mind when creating it, make sure what you say
on the site is what you mean and it is said correctly.

 Learn About 5 Web Design Trends to Invest

A site with bad grammar or with incorrect directions to a store quickly becomes
mediocre.

Think outside the box: Stepping outside of your own realm isn’t hard, but it
does require a desire to discover ways an existing design can be improved.

You can always use those color schemes, and typography or layouts you never use.

Keep your customer in mind: Never forget who your customer is.

If you are looking at usability don’t just look at what works, find out why it
works.

Get to Know about  5 Mistakes You Can Avoid When Collecting Design Feedback

You may be looking for a website that can help your business, but your
customers will be looking for a website that keeps usability at the forefront.

NMG, the best web design & development company can help you design your dream
web app

Schedule a Free Assesment

Design


Similar posts

Design


Vital Principles for Quality Web Design

If you're working on a design for your website, make sure you follow or
consider these vital principles of web design to secure the first impressions.

Nishtha Nov 30, 2012
Design


5 Design Trends to Invest In 2017

What are the web design trends in 2017? let's explore 5 design trends to invest
in 2017 to give your website a serious facelift.

Nishtha Mar 12, 2017
Events


SEMPO Hangouts Session- Web Design and User Experience

Designing a great website user experience requires understanding the problems.
Go through SEMPO Hangouts Session to know about the UX Design best...

Nishtha Jul 10, 2016


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.