Events


NMG Technologies to Participate in LEAP 2023 Tech Conference in Riyadh, Saudi
Arabia

NMG Technologies, a custom software development company, will be participating
in LEAP 2023, a tech conference focused on the future of technology. Visit them.

Nishtha
Mar 2, 2023
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 18 minutes


The LEAP tech conference is returning to Saudi Arabia for its next edition from
6-9 February 2023. The event will feature a range of enterprise solutions on
display.

NMG Technologies is excited to announce that it will participate in the global,
award-winning technology event LEAP 2023 conference in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia,
from 6-9 February. The event will bring together 100,000+ disruptive tech
professionals worldwide to explore new worlds and discover what’s next for tech
and humanity. This year’s conference will focus on the online world, outer
space, and the latest advances in technology shaping humanity’s future. As one
of the leading mobile app providers, custom web/software development, AI/ML
applications, and Advance Search Marketing cutting-edge services, NMG is
looking forward to connecting with fellow industry leaders and sharing our
expertise at this year’s conference.

Rohit Maheshwari, Director of NMG Technologies, commented on the company’s
participation, stating that “We are excited to participate in this landmark
event. We believe this event will provide a valuable opportunity for us to
connect with industry leaders and discuss the future of software technology.”

With its impressive list of NASDAQ-Listed Enterprise Clients such as RGP Inc.,
Nikon Corporation, WHO & Oxfam – NMG Technologies has always delivered the
right services and values to its customers.

The NMG team will be present at Hall 4, Indian Pavilion, Booth #4. We have a
reputation for teamwork and innovation, so we encourage anyone with great ideas
to speak with us during the event. You can also book an appointment or email us
at info@nmgtechnologies.com .

About NMG Technologies

NMG is a global software company specializing in custom development services.
We have served over 500 clients with mobile app development, web development,
software development, Python development, beta testing, automation testing, and
e-commerce solutions. We maintain high-quality standards during each project
using only the latest technologies. With 15 years of experience and satisfied
customers worldwide, NMG Technologies takes pride in its work!

Contact Details:

Email – info@nmgtechnologies.com

Las Vegas:+1 702 637 1676

New Delhi: +91-124-4424655

Events


Similar posts

Events


NMG Technologies to Sponsor and Exhibit at Brighton SEO 2023 and Online PR Show
2023

Discover the latest news and updates from NMG Technologies as we announce our
sponsorship and exhibition at Brighton SEO 2023 and Online PR Show 2023.

Nishtha Mar 29, 2023
Events


NMG Technologies Participated in Softwave 2023, The Republic of Korea Software
Exhibition

NMG Technologies Participated in Softwave 2023, The Republic of Korea Software
Exhibition

Nishtha Nov 29, 2023
Mobile


Never Miss a Goal with Koora Break!

Developed by NMG Technologies, Experience Football Like Never Before with Saudi
Arabia's Award-Winning Soccer App.

NMG Feb 23, 2024


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.