Design


Mind Your En And Em Dashes: Typographic Etiquette

A well-trained designer can tell within moments of viewing a design whether its
creator knows how to work with typography.

Nishtha
Aug 8, 2011
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 2 minutes

An understanding of typographic etiquette separates the master designers from
the novices. A well-trained designer can tell within moments of viewing a
design whether its creator knows how to work with typography. Typographic
details aren’t just inside jokes among designers. They have been built up from
thousands of years of written language, and applying them holds in place
long-established principles that enable typography to communicate with
efficiency and beauty.

Handling these typographic details on the Web brings viagra challenges and
restrictions that need to be considered. Below are a few rules of thumb that
will have you using typography more lucidly than ever before.


Setting Body Copy

Good typography comes down to communicating information, and the basis of
information is good old-fashioned body copy  –  simple blocks of text. Here are
a few ways to make your blocks of text nice and clean.


Indentation or Space After a Paragraph?

When signalling the end of a paragraph and the beginning of another, you can
generally either indent or insert a space between the paragraphs. Doing both is
redundant and creates awkward, irregular chunks of white space.

Indentation
Indent the first line of a new paragraph about 1 em (if your font size is 12px,
then that would amount to 12 pixels). Indenting the opening paragraph of a new
section would be redundant, because that paragraph would be the first in that
page or section anyway.

Space after paragraph
A full line break of 1 em (like when you hit the “Return” key twice) is
generally more than enough to signal a new paragraph. About 0.8 ems is
sufficient.

Design


Similar posts

Design


Vital Principles for Quality Web Design

If you're working on a design for your website, make sure you follow or
consider these vital principles of web design to secure the first impressions.

Nishtha Nov 30, 2012
Design


5 Mistakes you can avoid while collecting Design Feedback

There’s always a feedback stage in the web design process with clients. Here
are the 5 mistakes to avoid when collecting & giving feedback on design...

Nishtha Aug 25, 2017
Design


Good design or Great Design – Which one does your business need?

Ready to make sure your Web design is looking its best? Read on to know about
the best Practices for web designing.

Nishtha Mar 26, 2015


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.