Skip to content

Search


Create App - Detailed Guide to App UI Design for Mobile App Developers

Complete mobile application development guide to help you design and develop
the best-in-class Android and iOS apps

1. Today most of the time is spent consuming digital media on mobile apps.
2. Users spend about 90 percent of their time using applications on mobile
devices.
3. Around 85 percent of users prefer native mobile apps on mobile.
4. About 42 percent of mobile sales of Fortune 500 organizations are done
through mobile apps.

Table of Content

Chapter 1 Chapter 3


CHAPTER 2


Mobile App Development

Chapter 2 will provide you complete information on Mobile App Development.

Here, you will get to know, "What is mobile app development?" and "What is the
best mobile app development platform?"

The best thing you'll grab here is an idea of "How to develop a mobile
application in java?"

Let's go through the topic in detail.

What is mobile app development

Mobile app development is a vast field where most of the part includes app
development for mobile.

It includes the development of apps for smartphones, smartwatches, tablets, and
other portable and wearable devices.

Mobile application development is the development of software that is made to
run, especially on mobile devices and mobile gadgets. These apps can take full
advantage of mobile hardware and software.

Currently, there are two significant mobile development:

iOS app development
This is the process of app development for Apple or iOS-based devices. iOS
development is a closed source, and it works only on iOS devices and is
developed using Objective C or Swift.

iOS mobile app development tools include:

    • XCode: It is an IDE (Integrated Development Environment) by Apple for iOS
      development.
    • iOS SDK: It is a kit (software development kit) which is integrated with
      the Cocoa Touch UI Framework.
    • Swift Playground: It is a development tool that makes learning of Swift
      fun and interactive.
    • TestFlight: Testflight is an online tool for online testing and
      installation of apps that further helps in collecting feedback before an
      app launch.

An iOS app provides higher revenue in comparison to Android. Since the iOS app
works on Apple devices, it runs perfectly and also gets fit on every screen.
The only disadvantages of iOS apps are flexibility and App Release.

Android app development
Android has the largest share of the app market, with a current value of more
than 3.3 million apps.

Developers use Java, Kotlin, and C++ programming languages to create Android
applications. Also, there are a variety of assistant development tools that
developers use to carry out Android application development, that include:

    • Firebase: Firebase is a platform for developing high-quality Android
      applications to expand the user base and gain profits quickly.
    • Android JetPack: It is a package of tools, libraries, and guidance,
      helping businesses in creating beautiful and high-quality applications.
    • Android SDK: It is a development kit connected to an integrated
      development environment.

What is the best mobile app development platform?

No matter we are discussing consumer or enterprise mobile applications, picking
the right mobile development platform is certainly not a quick and
straightforward procedure.

With such broad offerings of development stages, it is difficult to find the
best one. Everything relies upon your business objectives, your spending limit,
and, most importantly, on your resources.

To give you a quick way out, we have accumulated a list of best mobile app
development platforms that you choose and use as per your project requirements.

Here are the ten best platforms for mobile app development:

1. Appery.io
Appery.io is among the first platforms to offer a fast cloud-based environment
for enterprise mobile application development. It is packed with a rich catalog
of API plugins and integrated backend services. It significantly improves
integration with enterprise systems and cloud services.

Benefits of Appery.io:

    • It's easy to get started, and there is no need to download or install
      anything since the builder runs on the cloud.
    • Since Appery.io is a cloud-based platform, it requires no cost to develop
      an app. Also, deploying and maintenance is comfortable with it.
    • It is effortless to use, and you don't need any mobile app development
      skills.
    • With Appery.io, businesses can create cross-platform native apps.

Pricing: Pro Plans of Appery starts with $60/month and $135/month for Team.
Appery provides custom pricing for enterprise apps.

2. Mobile Roadie

Mobile Roadie is a self-development platform for native iOS and Android apps.
With Mobile Roadies, you will get a ready-to-use content management system that
is integrated with the feature module and dashboard.

If you are looking for a professional mobile app development platform, then
Mobile Roadie should primarily opt. It comes with features like push
notification, mailing list, chat wall, API, social unlock, top users, polls,
and many more.

Pricing: Price is available on request.

3. AppBuilder
AppBuilders is an online development platform for developing native
cross-platform apps. It comes with a fully customizable and easy to utilize
platform.

Also, apps built on this platform make it easy for developers to publish apps
on the store.

With the help of a dedicated AppLibrary, businesses can provide their users
with an option of windows in multiple apps, and you can even customize it with
your branding.

With this tool, you will have the option to protect private and public apps
with passwords and usernames. Also, you can easily do content management that
helps structure your app even when the app goes live. If you are designing more
complex applications, you can make it happen with HTML5.

One of the advantages of the app builder is that it is very cost-effective.

Pricing: Price is available on request.

4. Good Barber
Good Barber lets you beautifully design mobile applications without any
technical knowledge.

Good Barber is built to focus on design. It includes various features of
content that comprises social media, audio/video, articles/news, and eCommerce
app, builder.

This tool provides SEO features and full responsive design and also allows you
to publish the application without getting on to iOS or Play Store.

Benefits of Good Barber:

    • Effective team management: Good barber allows businesses to add any one
      of the projects.
    • You will get a lot of design template options, and you can make your
      unique mobile application.
    • You will get a fully functional progressive web application with its
      domain that also includes sitemaps and SEO keywords.

Pricing: Price starts from $27/month for the standard version, $52/month for
full text, and $104/month for premium version.

5. Appy Pie
Appy Pie is an online cloud platform for creating apps. You can simply build an
app on this platform with the help of a drag and drop interface. One of the
advantages of Appy Pie is that you can build apps even if you don't have any
coding knowledge.

Apps built in Appy Pie can be used on any device, whether its iOS, Android, and
Windows. Also, it makes it easier for businesses by providing them the
guidelines and resources.

Appy Pie provides an option to publish the app on all the famous stores and
also offers the opportunity to monitor them.

Pricing: Free plan comes with ads, and Premium will cost up to $50/month.

6. AppMachine
AppMachines is an app building platform that enables you to create both web
applications and native applications for iOS and Android platforms. There are a
variety of DIY software provided by AppMachine, which you can integrate in your
app to enhance its productivity.

AppMachines provides a tool kit that is specially made for developers, which
helps them in developing a powerful native application. You can combine various
building blocks that offer features like photos, information, and video with
the help of drag and drop interface.

You can scan valuable content on the website and transfer them into iOS or
Android apps. Further, AppMachine allows you to test your mobile application
during the development process on your system. Post this activity, you can
publish the app on the iOS or Android app store.

Price: AppMachine offers free app-building; you need to pay when you publish.
Premium plans start from $49 to $300/month.

7. GameSalad
GameSalad is one of the most accessible platforms to develop games and other
interactive mobile applications. GameSalad includes two engines, HTML5 for web
apps and native engine for mobile apps.

GameSalad has a lot of tools and features like the drag and drop interface for
building apps that you can utilize without any knowledge of coding.

GameSalad offers two types of plans, one is made for developers, and the other
is made for educators. Both allow you to develop your gaming application
without putting effort to learn and implement code.

It lets you Learn Computer Science Through Game Creation. It features an actor
and scene editor, where most of the time you spend on building your game,
moving features, setting up actors in a scene, pictures, audio, and navigating
between actors.

One of the significant benefits is that it is a mobile community platform where
you can get help and advice from independent game designers.

Pricing: Price is available on request.

8. BiznessApps
BiznessApps has made mobile application development affordable and
straightforward. It is a DIY (do-it-yourself) platform for building apps that
enable any business to edit, create, and manage applications online without any
knowledge of coding.

With built-in designs and content management systems, BiznessApps allows you to
create an app in a few minutes plus, you can also check your app development
progress.


BiznessApps provides an extremely intuitive and simple design engine that
enables you to create the best mobile experience for mobile application users.
You can integrate with third-party services to streamline your cellular
development process.

Pricing: $99/month for an individual app, and the reseller plan starts from
$300/month.

9. AppMaker
AppMaker is a mobile application development platform by Appypie.

AppMaker is the best DIY (do it yourself) platform for building an app without
coding.

Appy Pie is an amazing; mobile makes building tool that is a good option for
small businesses.

Build fast native mobile applications with offline capabilities that will
provide content to users even if they are offline.

AppMakr focuses on supporting small businesses to create their apps without
code and boost their business by integrating social media features. All these
features make the mobile application shareable and let users login without
registering manually.

Pricing: AppMaker is a free app creator platform, and its premium plans cost up
to $99.

10. ShoutEm
ShoutEm is a mobile application development platform that offers powerful user
engagement tools, complete content management and monetization options.

It is a platform on which you can create your apps using tools and templates
and a drag-and-drop interface. You can select various pre-developed elements
and fix them as per app requirements. You can optimize both the functionality
and the visual elements of the app to make it user-focused and qualitative.

Some of its features are:

    • It provides native iOS and Android performance, which is powered by React
      Native.
    • You will get significant numbers of pixel-perfect layouts and themes.
    • You can create your layouts and themes using ShoutEm UI Tools.

Pricing: $49/month for Android only and $79/month for standard edition that
supports iOS and $149/month for professional version.

What is the mobile app development process?

There are more than 200 billion mobile apps on the app stores developed for
different platforms.

Just like SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) in software development for
PCs, there's MADC (Mobile App Development Cycle) in mobile application
development to develop highly-interactive mobile apps.

Creating an excellent mobile app is a process associated with extensive
pre-planning. The mobile app development process involves a strategy, design,
and development process. With that said, here's a look at the app development
lifecycle, objectives and the challenges encountered along the way.


1. Idea
To build a great app, you need to have a good idea first. Without a good idea,
you can't continue with app development.

You have to ask yourself questions by keeping the app idea in mind that entails
what the users' problem is and how you can solve it.

You need to do an analysis of the problem and need to figure out why no one
else has built the app for that problem. Speaking with other people about the
app idea can help you get the appropriate results.


2. Strategy
Competition
After having a perfect idea, you need to figure out who your competitors are
and what they are currently doing to attract users and make a strong customer
base.

You will have to find out the number of similar apps installed, you need to
check its reviews and ratings, and you also need to check the app and
background history.

There are two main objectives of this process:

   1. Learn as much as you can so that there is a minimal amount of mistakes.
   2. Find out how fierce the competition is in the market and how many users
      are eagerly looking for such apps. Try finding out the niche of your
      competitor and convert it into a benefit for your app.

Monetization
App monetization is an essential step in your app development strategy. If you
want your app to make money, then you will have to make an app from your user's
point of view.

There are various methods of monetization like subscriptions, in-app purchases,
ad-revenue, premium features, paid apps, and by selling user's data.

You need to do proper market research to find out the latest trends if you want
to monetize your app.

Marketing
App marketing is all about finding the challenges in the market while launching
your app. It's like planning for the 4ps that include product, price, place,
and promotion before starting a product of any product or service. Remember
that there are a lot of applications on play stores that are beautifully
designed and crafted but are unused.

So, first, you will have to find out the potential usage of your application.
You need to figure out solutions to questions like: How many people are
downloading apps similar to yours? Will your application be able to solve their
problems?

You need to understand your approach and the overall budget.

Road Map
It is the last stage of app development strategy. Preparing a roadmap of your
app includes understanding of your app future and steps needed to make it
successful from day one.

Here, you need to prepare a list of all the tasks that your app will perform
and rank them according to the priority. As you gain users, you will get to
know what functionalities need to be added.

3. UX Design
Architecture
In this process, you will decide what functionalities and information you need
to keep in your application and how they will be organized.

You need to prepare a list of all the tasks that your app will perform and rank
them according to the priority and what is required to be displayed in the app.

You will need a whiteboard, pencil and paper.

Wireframe
In this stage, you document and wireframe the application to analyze the future
trends.

Wireframing is significantly something beyond just creating an app
architecture; in reality, it's a pillar of your application.

Wireframing helps you understand the flow of the system and gives you an idea
of how it will work. Further, this enables you to estimate the project
development timeline.

Requirements: AdobeXD/Sketch, whiteboard, marker, Balsamiq, and paper.

Learn more about Role Of Wireframes In Mobile App Development.


Workflows
Workflow is the path in which your mobile app users travel. Understanding your
user's activities and monitoring how many clicks are needed to perform that
task.

When you find any problem within the workflow, you need to wireframe that
section again and retry.

Requirements: You need invisionapp, whiteboard and marker, and paper.


NMG has created a video on invision. You can add it here to make readers the
workflow of the tool.

4. Development

After putting a considerable effort in the application design and structure,
you now realize your vision.

In this step, you will define the tasks to the developers to achieve the
defined objective of a mobile app

The best part is you can see the progress of your mobile app with the help of
project management tools such as Trello and Basecamp where every activity is
being recorded and tracked appropriately

Technologies for Android Development
Languages: Kotlin, Java
Database: Realm, SQLite
Tools: Android NDK, Android SDK
IDE: Android Studio

Technologies for iOS Development
Languages: Objective C, Swift
Databases: CoreData, Realm, SQLite

5. Q/A testing

Q/A testing is generally carried out by non-developers or any developer in the
app development team. It guarantees a genuine and quality app testing
experience. There are several types of tests that need to be emphasized during
each sprint. The test types are

Functional Testing
Functional testing is done to test the app against the functional
specification/requirement of the client.

App test engineers use the information that was gathered at the initial stage
of requirements analysis to test an app as their test cases. It helps them to
check whether or not the project is going as expected.

Performance Testing
No one is going to use your application if it is taking 15-20 seconds to
display a list. This is the reason app performance testing is essential.

The purpose of performance testing is to test the system for stability and
scalability under various load conditions.

It also detects potential web constraints to examine the structure and
operation of a website under high stress. The primary aim of this testing is to
ensure that the system is performing well and behave well when utilized by the
users.

Usability Testing
Usability Testing ensures that the features of an application are intuitive and
user friendly.

In usability testing, HCI (human-computer interaction) factors of a system are
measured, and flaws are identified for further improvement.

At this stage, the development team monitors the screen of the user to know how
the selected user is interacting with the website.

What languages are used for mobile app development?

In the last five years, the mobile application development industry has
multiplied in leaps and bounds, changing the way businesses operate around the
world. There's one thing sure behind their success, the idea and implementation
of the mobile app.

Therefore, if you want to understand your mobile application idea, plan it,
understand the target market, and also decide the platform on which you
preferably want to develop your mobile application.

Language and development platform selection is the most crucial part, as the
whole process is based on it. So, always make sure to choose the best and
suitable one to carry out the proposed mobile development. Here we're
mentioning the six best and most demanding languages for mobile app
development:

HTML5

Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) is a well-known language for presenting and
structuring the content on the internet/WWW (World Wide Web).

It is the 5th version of HTML, which we called HTML5, where the text and tags
are more familiar than the previous one. HTML 5 is more compatible with all
types of scripting languages.

There is a CANVAS element in HTML5 that is used for a lot of things in embedded
applications such as online/offline games, dynamic graphics, interactive audio
and video, and animations.

Learn more about HTML5.

Java
When it comes to developing Android Mobile Apps, Java language is one of the
most preferred among all.

It is Class-based, Concurrent, Object-oriented and, explicitly designed to have
a few implementation dependencies.
This language has a set of large, well-written, and standard class libraries.


Objective C
iOS developers choose Objective C as a primary language for the development of
iOS applications. Apple chose this language to build scalable and robust
applications.

It's a set of C language and provides dynamic runtime and object situated
capabilities.

Know more about Objective-C.


Swift
Swift is a programming language introduced in 2014 as an alternative to
Objective C.

Swift is a language made to work along with the C programming language, making
programming more fun.

Swift has a clean slate that is developed and much supported by the Cocoa
Framework.

Swift entered the Apple ecosystem, mostly because of its prevalence in writing
code for the latest APIs of Apple, Cocoa, and Cocoa Touch.

Learn more about Swift.


C#
C# is a programming language developed by Microsoft to develop applications for
windows web and mobile.

Most of the organizations are presently writing cross-platform code. Many are
building their whole codebase on Python and React since that is all you need.

You can compose everything in C#, a tad of JavaScript for the front-end site.

Even though, for straightforward portable applications that do exclude
versatile equipment highlights, C # is impressive.

C# is best when a mobile application doesn't need mobile hardware-specific
native features.

Here you can know more about C#.


C++
It is a robust and most appropriate programming language with regards to the
development of portable applications. Individually, or low-level programming,
it is the most preferred language for developers.

It may not be trendy, but C++ dominated the programming world even before the
smartphone revolution.

Here is C# Tutorial where you can learn everything about C#

These all were the best programming languages for mobile application
development. There are many more programming languages like JavaScript, Kotlin,
Python, J-Query, SQL, Lua, Rust, Ruby, Object Pascal, QML, Scheme,
Actionscript, and many more. You can get details on all of them here.

How to develop a mobile application in java?

Most of the developers use Java as a platform for developing Android mobile
applications.

Here, we will discuss developing an Android application using Java. Before
starting with Java, you require some tools to create mobile apps.

To start, you need to download the Android SDK bundle and unzip them. Now,
start your development process.

For an expert developer, it is an easy task to program an application, and for
a beginner it requires to keep a few steps and aspects in mind

Here are the steps to develop an Android application using Java. These steps
will help you develop an amazing mobile app in Java.

    • First, create an Android project in the Eclipse IDE.
    • Then configure the project and choose a launcher icon.
    • Select the type of activity, and then your project is open for you to
      start with Android application coding on Java.
    • Now, implement the logic in MainActivity.java file which you can get from
      a folder (src/com.example.tutorialapplication/)
    • After implementing the logic, declare your component in Android Manifest
      file
    • Provide text elements used in the application UI in a string file.
    • Use activity_main.xml for controlling the layout of the application.
    • The last step is to run your application in your Eclipse IDE by clicking
      on the Run icon.

You can create cross-platform apps, too, but for that, you will need more tools
and steps that are provided here "How to make a Cross-Platform Mobile App in
Java."

How to develop a mobile application using PhoneGap?

PhoneGap is one of the most widely used mobile application development
platforms by Adobe. It facilitates cross-platform mobile application
development.

With the help of PhoneGap, you can create mobile applications for all major
operating systems, including iOS and Android.

You don't have to be an expert for every one of these operating systems. All
you need is to simply transfer information data to the site which is changed
into a different application file.

You can use Java, HTML, and CSS to develop mobile applications.

When you use PhoneGap, there are different steps for different operating
systems, so let's get started.

Building an Android app
For building an Android app, you need to make sure that applications are
installed on devices apart from Google Play Store.

For that, you need to first go to settings of your device, and on the PhoneGap
security page, you just need to allow unknown sources.


Building iOS app
Apple has quite a different process. You first need a developer account, and
for this, you will have to spend $99.

After this, you will have to wait for a couple of days for approval, which can
result in delayed testing.


Configuration
Only a single configuration is needed for web applications. It contains all the
vital data required to develop the app.


Widgets
All configuration contents are implemented in the <widget> tag.


Icons
The size of various smartphones differs from one another, regardless of whether
they are utilizing the same OS.

Various smartphone users have multiple options concerning the selection of
applications, and you need to introduce all the icons for all the smartphones.
You can make it responsive to various devices.

If you want to learn the application development process on PhoneGap in detail,
then this tutorial from PhoneGap will help you.


What's new in mobile app development?

It is estimated that by the year 2022, consumers in the United States will
spend up to 34 billion dollars on mobile apps through the App Store, according
to a region-specific revenue.

If you are planning for mobile application development, then you need to be
updated on the latest trend in mobile application development. For you, here
are the top trends for mobile application development to be adopted in 2020:

Blockchain
Today, blockchain is one of the revolutionary technologies used in mobile
application development to keep the user information protected and make the
transaction process extremely fast.

Due to the emerging prominence across the industry, various developers and
techies are developing mobile software and applications using Blockchain.

On top of it, Blockchain, with the Internet of Things (IoT), improves the
application process by fast transaction and less cost of development.

Following are there trends in Blockchain Technology:

    • Ricardian Contracts
    • Blockchain As A Service (BaaS)
    • Federated Blockchain

Artificial Intelligence
Artificial Intelligence has changed the way applications were developed. Now,
with the help of AI, you can create a good user experience by saving a lot of
money.

Introduction of Artificial Intelligence-powered Chatbots that have further
changed the way businesses interact with the customer.

With the help of AI-powered and chatbots integrated mobile applications,
businesses like food delivery, cab services, and online shopping are
effectively interacting with their customers and solving their queries quickly.

Virtual Reality & Augmented Reality (AR & VR)
There are a lot of mobile applications that will adapt to augmented reality and
virtual reality in the coming years.

It is the time where AR and VR put real-world experience into your mobile
application that is thrilling and exceptional.

The best example of an augmented reality mobile application is Pokemon Go. In
the coming year, this technology will be used in mobile applications of
services like education, healthcare, travel, retail, etc.


IoT Trends
Internet of Things is a big interconnected network of mechanical, digital, and
computers, allowing the exchange of information and data.

You can control smart gadgets like smartwatches, TV, lights, and Alexa,
remotely from your smartphones and many other devices by giving your voice
command.