Outsourcing


Top Ways to Find The Right Outsourcing Company

To find the right outsourcing company, narrow down your needs to ease the
comparison process in this extremely noisy marketplace.

Nishtha
Aug 30, 2019
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated reading time: 10 minutes

Businesses are, increasingly, outsourcing Software and Mobile App Development
tasks to offshore companies with exceptional skill set allowing them to
counteract the budget offset .Outsourcing may seem as your best bet for your
business concerns; however, finding the right company to achieve the desired
results, sure, isn’t a cake-walk! The most common challenge that budding
businesses comes across is:

How to identify one company that is capable enough to deliver among the crowd?

This article here will help you with some best practices that you can use in
order to find the right outsourcing partner for your next development project.
Use these while analysing companies so you can be sure to make decision based
on data. In the end you will also find a cheat sheet on which you can rate each
company based on the parameters that are important for your team and your
business.

…

Many of us, sure, have stumbled upon some appalling stories about outsourcing.
How someone spent thousands of dollars during a course of 6 months without any
satisfactory result! This article will help you avoid this situation.

The most common method used by a majority of people is Google search. They
browse through Google, enter a couple of keywords of required expertise and
find a list of companies, analyzing and choosing the one which seems most
appropriate. Money often becomes a decision maker, unfortunately, leading to
some wrong choices and substantial number of failed projects.

Let’s take a look at some issue you normally face while identifying the
suitable companies:


#1 Gap in understanding your requirements

Even before you start working, a company needs to understand, analyze and
define your business goals, and then, build a personalized solution for you. If
your development team do not follow such practice, then you are sure getting
yourself in trouble. Start by listing down your requirements and try to create
a user flow of your business as a customer rather than a feature list.
Companies usually avoid this step to win your project but this step is the more
important step towards building your application.


#2 Inflexible engagement models

If your project is one of those which will evolve during development, then this
becomes an important checkpoint to analyse your company. This aspects directly
impacts your cost of development so you have to be sure of choosing the right
engagement model that your business needs. If the outsourced team does not have
any means to track their tasks or effectively manage, this can proves
catastrophic for the project.


#3 Inexperienced resources

The company might claim to have many resources but they do not have experience
developing products in your industry or similar technologies that you need.
This could be a serious no-no for your outsourcing provider as you would not
want to work with someone with whom you do have full trust in the skills they
offer.


#4 Response time delay

Communication with offshore teams meant painfully waiting of time zones to
match, slow chat conversation or broken voice calls leading to uninformed or
mis-communicated loops of approvals and feedbacks. Today, everyone needs to
know what’s going on inside the production. YOur outsourcing partner should
provide easy and powerful communication process so you can get straight to
discussion – right away! – If this is lacking right from the sales pitching
process, then that’s a sign to look ahead.

By reading further you can avoid these issues above and find the right partner
for your business, because there are numerous advantages that outsourcing
offers… Which i will not discuss in this article and i assume you are aware of
them and that’s why you are reading this piece. If you want to understand how
modern day outsourcing should work, download our ebook here which talks about
the modern outsourcing approach to follow so you can align yourself with the
right expectations

Ignore the rules of traditional
outsourcing

Download Now

Let’s begin by using the right sources to find your outsourcing company. There
could be a number of sources from where you can scout for your next outsourcing
team. Enlisted below are some of the common sources that are chosen ones to
look up for a new outsourcing team.


#1 Google Search

Browsing a search engine is by far the primary step through which one can look
for options for outsourcing. Basis the required skill set or technological
expertise, prepare a list of keywords which would give you the most relevant
search results to kick-start your quest. Once you get the search results, take
time in shortlisting and selecting the most relevant companies basis their
online reviews & industry reputation. Now that you have a list with you, sieve
out the ones you find useful and take it forward from here.


#2 Online Marketplaces

Only the trusted ones please! These sources can be one of your great options,
when seeking for an offshore outsourcing partners. There are various readily
available online marketplaces that make offshore IT outsourcing more accessible
as well as manageable. These online marketplaces expose businesses, on a look
out, to hundreds of vendors spread across the world to provide the most
relevant matchmaking & optimal results for basic project management
requirement. You can search by skills, location, category, services and
reviews. These listings can help build a certain level trust and expectation to
begin your hunt.


#3 Referrals through Friends and Colleagues

Have some of your friends and industry colleagues or business partners referred
some company to you? This can be one of the most dependable path. However, you
need to screen through the team’s credentials mindfully as what worked out for
your referee might not work out for you.The company may not necessarily, have
enough expertise in your project or match the selection criteria. Don’t strike
them off your list but do not choose as yet!


#4 Directory Listings

These are another popular way to look up the most optimal choices for
outsourcing companies across the web, suitable for your project. Below are some
of the sources using which one can allocate a potential outsourcing teams.

    • Clutch: Clutch can help in researching and reviewing your choice of
      outsourcing partner in offshore locations. Clutch gives you basic
      information about firms offering various services while populating the
      customer reviews. Here companies are mapped basis their performances &
      customer reviews.
    • Reddit: Its a social news site where people can post links to useful
      content on the web. One can also vote to what is being talked about or
      discussed.
    • Craigslist: This is a great place for posting ads based on your business
      environment. Craigslist is basically a classified advertisements website
      that has separate sections for jobs, housing, etc. Businesses can post
      their requirements here while waiting for an appropriate responses.
    • Smashing Magazine: A wonderfully informative website and eBook publisher,
      Smashing Magazine, can help you scout for the right person for your
      business needs through its jobs section.One can check for the type of job
      which can be freelance or full time.

Next, let’s list the important factors that you can analyse your outsourcing
company so you can make the right decision.

Here’s a spreadsheet template of rating matrix for your development companies.
Rate your top companies based on the features mentioned and in the end you can
have a clear picture of what your outsourcing companies can do for you.

Outsourcing Company Matrix
Template Download Now

#1 Understand the Outsourcing Engagement Model which your Business needs.

Apart from various engagement models, there are a slew of methodologies that
can be adopted, basis particular business requirements.

Agile methodology is an effective alternative to conventional project
management methods typically used in software development. It equips the work
teams to effectively coordinate and respond to the unpredictability with the
help of incremental, iterative work cadences which are called sprints.To put it
in simple words, Agile methodology basically refers to a unique way of managing
IT projects and development teams.Here, software is developed in small and
measurable releases making it a steady cycle. Each of the releases is built on
the success of the previous functionality which is thoroughly tested to
maintain quality.The Agile methodology can be helpful when there is a need for
implementing new changes.The amount of freedom that one gets with Agile
methodology is relevant to the project. Herein the new changes can be easily
implemented at a low cost owing to the frequency of the new increments that are
being churned out every moment.

Scrum Methodology is a part of the Agile framework that was developed to aid
the completion of complex projects. It aims at removing the frailties of a
typical project development life-cycle which can be accredited to a number of
reasons, such as, changing requirements, unrealistic demands of cost, time and
quality of the product. Projects, broken down into tasks, built with one small
piece at a time, foster creativity and enable teams to relevantly respond to
the feedback and change. Created originally for formalizing software
development projects, Scrum can work well for any kind of complex task. Scrum
can enhance teamwork, communication as well as speed.Scrum is the leading agile
development methodology, used by Fortune 500 companies around the world.

#2 Understand the Skills and Capabilities of the Company

Choosing the right offshore team for your project is a critical step to
successful outsourcing. Your outsourcing partner should be capable to bring the
best and the brightest on the table.Since outsourcing is a demanding process
and involves high business stakes, it is only relevant to have the best work
with you every time. In fact, there should be a must-have skill set for your
outsourcing team to perform. Below are some of the most important points that
need consideration before you go ahead with your chosen outsourcing team:

Industry Experience: It is imperative to verify your outsourcing team’s
experience in the similar industry. The team should be familiar with the type
of task you are to assign and must have a successful experience to back up
their skill set.

Working Model: Prior to giving a go ahead, It is cardinal to ascertain their
working model well in advance. Whether they work on hourly basis and how their
price charts look like! These things need to be considered before you enter
into an agreement.

Development Process: Make a note all softwares the outsourced team has worked
on in the past & whether they align well with your requirements! Also, not to
mention their development process and way of working.

Communication and Collaboration: You need to ensure that the communication and
collaboration process of the outsourced team is at par with that of yours.
Collaboration, communication and project management tools are necessary for an
effective correspondence and also to follow the progress on the project in real
time. Assessing communication skills is quintessential. This is especially
critical for offshore clients since the only mode of communication will be
Skype/Hangouts/VoIP apart from the phone. Given any communication gap, your
project can go haywire.

Security and Confidentiality: From the security standpoint, Before you start
working with a team, it is of absolute importance to examine their contract
policies especially the conflict resolution terms that they abide by. You
should be interested if their contract agreements. specifically, states the
courts for conflict resolution. It must also have NDA (Non-Disclosure
Agreement).

Timely Delivery: It is critical to ensure that your project will be completed
in stipulated time-frame with the desired quality. Deadlines are paramount in
business and working with a team that does not honor deadlines will throw your
project off the hill!

It doesn’t matter whether you make use of an outsourced or in-house team
approach; there are chances that you are already connected in a globally
distributed IT development ecosystem. What matters is the very understanding
that conventional management tools and practices are sometimes inadequate in
order to address the challenges of businesses who are readily embracing IT
outsourcing in order to stay ahead. As a business, you need to make a strategic
decisions to IT outsourcing and choosing wisely. A less expensive solution
might not be the answer to the most competitive advantage that you seek for
while Investing in a relationship with a reputable IT service provider that
takes the time to assess your needs and offers a array of services is the way
to go! Keeping in mind the above delineated pointers and staying clear of the
common mistakes can help you locate & on-board the best outsourcing team for
your project marking the beginning of a mutually successful business
relationship.

Use this company matrix and score them. This will help you choose the most
suitable company.

Let me know in your comments below on how you find this article.

Request Free Pricing
Outsourcing


Similar posts

Featured


NMG Technologies Made It on the List of Top Mobile App Development Companies at
GoodFirms

GoodFirms recognized and featured NMG Technologies among the top mobile
application development companies, pioneering software development companies,

Nishtha Jan 25, 2019
Featured


Consulting can save you from building a bad tech

This article can be used a guide by business owners who are looking to build a
saas product for their business, a marketing head who is looking to...

Nishtha Aug 30, 2019
Outsourcing


Best Practices of Offshore Software Development

It is very important to identify the challenges and risks of an offshore custom
software development company and mitigate them properly.

Nishtha Jun 1, 2012


Get notified on new marketing insights

Be the first to know about new B2B SaaS Marketing insights to build or refine
your marketing function with the tools and knowledge of today’s industry.