Skip to content

Search


Enterprise Mobility

Accelerate Efficiency and Connectivity with End-To-End Enterprise Mobility
Services.

    • SERVICES
    • Mobile Application Development
    • Enterprise Mobility
Services


Streamline Your Operations with Our Enterprise Mobility Solutions.

At NMG Technologies, we build feature-rich enterprise mobility solutions that
provide your employees with on-the-go access to critical information and tools,
irrespective of their work location. Our comprehensive enterprise mobility
management services lead to streamlined operations, optimized resource
utilization, minimal downtime, better connectivity & efficiency with real-time
data sharing.

Get ready to empower your workforce with systems perfectly tailored for your
organisation.

Enterprise


Our Enterprise Mobility Solutions.

In today's mobile-first world, we help you navigate the complexities of mobile
device management all the while ensuring security, productivity, and
uninterrupted mobile experience for your employees.



SaaS Apps

We develop & deploy multi-tenancy Software-as-a-Service enterprise applications
on a secure cloud platform. Whether it be cloud migration or cloud-based
enterprise mobility development, we build solutions tailored to your specific
needs.



Apps for Web

Access your enterprise applications anytime, anywhere, with our web-based
mobility solutions. Our team of developers with proven expertise in development
& execution offers long-term partnerships for seamless integration with your
existing systems for a truly connected and productive workforce.



Apps for Mobile

Our user-friendly enterprise mobile-based solutions assist you in streamlining
operations, improving efficiency and real-time collaboration across several
departments or offices. Quick access, intuitive UI and robust functionality
make everyday tasks more convenient & your team more productive.


Apps for Tablets

We build scalable apps, making use of the power of tablet computing. These
enterprise apps are feature-rich and provide business-focused functionality
such as CRM, ERP, project management and much more.


Enterprise Mobility Solutions for Industries.

    • Healthcare & Medical
    • Fintech
    • Edtech
    • Travel and Hospitality
    • Real Estate
    • Logistics and Automotive

NMG Technologies has helped simplify hospital operations with innovative
enterprise mobility solutions designed to enhance collaboration between doctors
& nurses to deliver prompt medical services to patients.

Our Unity Plus Healthcare app helped our client increase operational efficiency
by connecting patients with the relevant hospital staff across various shifts.

Our expert team of developers provides services with enterprise mobility +
security E3 in the Fintech industry.

In our project, Compound Banc, we not only deployed features like secure
payment gateways, real-time data synchronization, biometric authentication, and
advanced analytics but also added an investment planning calculator that
supplemented the digital experience.

Our enterprise mobility agency assists educational institutions & organizations
in leveraging mobile technology for enhanced learning experiences and
streamlined operations.

These solutions encompass a range of platforms designed to facilitate remote
learning, improve communication & deliver administrative efficiency. We deploy
features such as personalized learning paths, secure communication channels and
seamless integration with existing learning management systems.

NMG Technologies develops enterprise mobility solutions that optimize
operations and enhance guest experience in the travel and hospitality industry.

From mobile check-ins & keyless entry to real-time communication & personalized
services, our solutions assist travelers as well as employees of hotels,
airlines and travel agencies.
We build enterprise mobility platforms that enable real-time access to property
listings, market trends, client data & communication channels directly on
mobile devices of real estate agents, brokers and property managers. Our
solutions help real estate professionals optimize workflows, provide superior
service and gain a competitive edge over their competitors.
Our logistics enterprise solutions enable fleet tracking, route optimization,
predictive maintenance, and inventory management through cloud-based platforms
accessible on mobiles.
NMG Technologies additionally provides features like GPS tracking and automated
data collection. In the automotive sector, our solutions facilitate remote
diagnostics & vehicle performance monitoring to ensure consistent vehicle
maintenance.
TECH


Our Core Technologies For Enterprise Mobility Management.

    • Programming Languages
    • Frameworks
    • Databases
    • JavaScript
      It is utilized on the server side with Node.js to build scalable
      enterprise applications in real-time.
    • HTML
      Going beyond themes and templates, HTML allows us to customize structure
      and content.
    • CSS
      We develop the visual style & aesthetics of enterprise apps using CSS to
      render a compelling design.
    • Python
      A versatile coding language popular for its readability and extensive
      libraries, it is well-suited for various enterprise cloud apps.
    • Spring Boot (Java)
      This popular framework for creating enterprise applications is often used
      for streamlined development and a variety of features.
    • Node.js
      This runtime environment enables developers to build fast, scalable, and
      real-time enterprise applications.
    • Django (Python)
      This high-level web framework assists in the swift development and design
      of complex cloud enterprise applications and APIs.
    • Ruby on Rails (Ruby)
      Its convention-over-configuration approach allows for rapid development
      and maintenance.
    • MySQL
      A widely used open-source relational database system.
    • PostgreSQL
      A powerful and feature-rich open-source relational database.
    • MongoDB
      A popular document-oriented database offering flexibility and scalability
      for handling unstructured data.
    • Oracle
      A reliable database management system to handle large volumes of data and
      complex applications for businesses of all sizes
Enterprise


Our Enterprise Mobility Process.

Experience a transparent and collaborative Enterprise Mobility Process with NMG
Technologies as we track key performance indicators and provide ongoing support
to ensure your mobile strategy continues to drive value for your organization.

    • 01
      Brainstorm and Wireframe Design
      First off, we give you a questionnaire to fill out that defines the scope
      of work and goals. Based on it, our team designs the architecture and
      features within a low-fidelity wireframe for internal purposes.
    • 02
      UI Design and Feedback
      Next, we design the first draft of the User Interface for diverse
      screens. After basic vetting, we present the final design to you. During
      the presentation, we seek your feedback. Later on, we integrate the
      suggestions and start the development process.
    • 03
      Project Planning
      We create a functional specification document that is shared with the
      creative designer, developer, QA, project manager, and the client i.e.
      you. It contains detailed requirements and development scope with
      specific milestones & tentative timelines. We also finalise project
      planning and reporting tasks in this stage.
    • 04
      App Development
      Our Enterprise app developers integrate UI and implement functionality.
      The deliverables are then submitted for internal testing, and changes are
      made as per QA feedback. Post that, we work on client feedback.
    • 05
      App Launch
      NMG team then shares an APK or installation link with you, and a demo
      call is scheduled. App launch requires certain prerequisites such as
      accounts enrolled on Google Play Store. We will walk you through the
      process and share details to set up accounts. We will also require NMG to
      be deemed the release manager to submit apps to the store for the review
      process.
    • 06
      App Maintenance
      Our maintenance services keep your app up to date with the latest
      features. We also provide enterprise mobility consulting services and
      offer strategic advice on app optimization, support to address user
      queries, hosting server tracking to ensure app accessibility at all times
      and bug fixes to maintain app stability.
client speak


Your Journey, Our Expertise:
Results-Driven Successful Partnerships

"NMG is my sigh of relief. Finding an SEO agency, you can trust to create
data-driven, Advanced SEO and Content Marketing strategies while staying
focused on your unique business and achieving the desired results is rare. The
personal attention they give to our projects and their ownership over the
results help us fulfill our mission to enable every person on Earth to travel
freely."
Mohak Nahta
CEO and Founder, Atlys Inc
“If you are looking for a company that truly cares about your business and your
success, look no further than NMG. Their team is knowledgeable, trustworthy,
and committed to delivering results that exceed expectations.”
Mihir Trivedi
Head of Marketing
“NMG Technologies provided a detailed specification document and appropriate
software solutions from the outset, delivering results very close to the
original proposal. The team was available to discuss issues, replied promptly
to emails, and provided constant updates.”

Sai Karan Vedulla
London & Partners,
VP & Chief Representative

"What set NMG apart from other companies was their experience in managing
complex programs and their strategic insights in the B2B segment. They did an
excellent job throughout the whole project and provided a level of assurance
and comfort in their abilities that others could not match"

Steve Delvecchia
VP Digital Engagement,
Resources Connection Inc.
(NASDAQ Listed)

Our Awards


Recognitions & Awards.

Our Process


Our Blogs.

We guide you from concept to launch of your successful Magento online store.
Our iterative Magento development process focuses on collaboration and
flexibility.


Never Miss a Goal with Koora Break!

Developed by NMG Technologies, Experience Football Like Never Before with Saudi
Arabia's Award-Winning Soccer App.

February 23, 2024

Read More


NMG Technologies to Participate in Mobile Word Capital Barcelona – the world’s
largest and most influential connectivity event

NMG Technologies to Participate in Mobile Word Capital Barcelona – the world’s
largest and most influential connectivity event

February 16, 2024

Read More


NMG Technologies Participated in Softwave 2023, The Republic of Korea Software
Exhibition

NMG Technologies Participated in Softwave 2023, The Republic of Korea Software
Exhibition

November 29, 2023

Read More
Support


FAQ’s.


Can my enterprise solution be migrated to a mobile enterprise solution?

Yes, your enterprise solutions can be migrated to mobile enterprise solutions.
We are fully equipped to help you adapt your present systems and applications
to be compatible with mobile devices while maintaining data integrity, user
experience and existing functionality.


What are the platforms for which you can develop enterprise mobility solutions?

We can develop enterprise mobility solutions for iOS apps, Android apps,
Windows apps, Progressive Web Apps(PWAs), and Cross-platform apps. You need to
specify what you need in your enterprise framework, and we will suggest a
suitable enterprise mobility platform.


How do you ensure the data security and integrity of enterprise apps?

To ensure data security, we have robust security protocols in place, such as
advanced data encryption, penetration tests, security audits along with SSL
Encryption on web solutions.


What is an example of enterprise mobility?

An example of enterprise mobility is that an employee can upload a presentation
from a desktop to cloud storage and thereafter access it from a personal mobile
to present to the client.


How much does it cost to make an enterprise Mobility Solution?

The cost of availing enterprise mobility services depends on the scope of work
involved. It can vary widely based on the enterprise size, features needed and
more. Generally, it costs in the range of $12,000 to $25,000 & above.